
Module 1 introduction
Learning objectives

In this module, you will learn how to:

Summarize the benefits of AWS.
Describe differences between on-demand delivery and cloud deployments.
Summarize the pay-as-you-go pricing model.

AWS service offerings:
Compute
Storage
Network Security
Blockchain
Machine Learning
Artificial intelligence
Robot Development
Video production
Orbital Satelite

Fundamental Cloud Computing model

Coffee shop metaphor:
A customer orders cofffee (Customer makes request). The server takes money and gives custom coffee (Server validates order and returns request)

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is virtual server. So the coffee shop server is the A EC2.

You only pay for what you use. 

Coffee shop metaphor: You are about to release a new coffee and you hire many employees in anticipation for many customers but you end up not having to utilize on your employees. 

AWS, you do not prepay for anything and you dont have to worry about capacity contrainsts as you would on premise data center. You pay for what you use. You can spin up an instance if you need it. If you don't need them, you can remove instance and not pay for it since you are not using it


Key value: Pay for what you need

Client --> Server
         <---
         
In computing, a client can be a web browser or desktop application that a person interacts with to make requests to computer servers. A server can be services such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), a type of virtual server.

For example, suppose that a client makes a request for a news article, the score in an online game, or a funny video. The server evaluates the details of this request and fulfills it by returning the information to the client.


What is Cloud Computing?
The on demand delivery of IT resources over the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing

On-demand delivery
AWS has the resources that you need when you need them. Just as you don't need them, you can remove them.

IT resources 
Undifferentitated heaving lifting of IT
Tasks AWS wants to help with to allivate time of set up.


Deployment models for cloud computing
When selecting a cloud strategy, a company must consider factors such as required cloud application components, preferred resource management tools, and any legacy IT infrastructure requirements.


The three cloud computing deployment models are cloud-based, on-premises, and hybrid. 

Cloud-based deployment:
Run all parts of the application in the cloud.
Migrate existing applications to the cloud.
Design and build new applications in the cloud.

In a cloud-based deployment model, you can migrate existing applications to the cloud, or you can design and build new applications in the cloud. You can build those applications on low-level infrastructure that requires your IT staff to manage them. Alternatively, you can build them using higher-level services that reduce the management, architecting, and scaling requirements of the core infrastructure.

For example, a company might create an application consisting of virtual servers, databases, and networking components that are fully based in the cloud.


Cloud-based deployment
Deploy resources by using virtualization and resource management tools.
Increase resource utilization by using application management and virtualization technologies.

On-premises deployment is also known as a private cloud deployment. In this model, resources are deployed on premises by using virtualization and resource management tools.

For example, you might have applications that run on technology that is fully kept in your on-premises data center. Though this model is much like legacy IT infrastructure, its incorporation of application management and virtualization technologies helps to increase resource utilization.


Hybrid deployment
Connect cloud-based resources to on-premises infrastructure.
Integrate cloud-based resources with legacy IT applications.

In a hybrid deployment, cloud-based resources are connected to on-premises infrastructure. You might want to use this approach in a number of situations. For example, you have legacy applications that are better maintained on premises, or government regulations require your business to keep certain records on premises.

For example, suppose that a company wants to use cloud services that can automate batch data processing and analytics. However, the company has several legacy applications that are more suitable on premises and will not be migrated to the cloud. With a hybrid deployment, the company would be able to keep the legacy applications on premises while benefiting from the data and analytics services that run in the cloud.


Benefits of cloud computing
Consider why a company might choose to take a particular cloud computing approach when addressing business needs.

Trade upfront expense for variable expense
Upfront expense refers to data centers, physical servers, and other resources that you would need to invest in before using them. Variable expense means you only pay for computing resources you consume instead of investing heavily in data centers and servers before you know how you’re going to use them.

By taking a cloud computing approach that offers the benefit of variable expense, companies can implement innovative solutions while saving on costs.

Stop spending money to run and maintain data centers
Computing in data centers often requires you to spend more money and time managing infrastructure and servers. 

A benefit of cloud computing is the ability to focus less on these tasks and more on your applications and customers.

Stop guessing capacity
With cloud computing, you don’t have to predict how much infrastructure capacity you will need before deploying an application. 

For example, you can launch Amazon EC2 instances when needed, and pay only for the compute time you use. Instead of paying for unused resources or having to deal with limited capacity, you can access only the capacity that you need. You can also scale in or scale out in response to demand.

Benefit from massive economies of scale
By using cloud computing, you can achieve a lower variable cost than you can get on your own.
 
Because usage from hundreds of thousands of customers can aggregate in the cloud, providers, such as AWS, can achieve higher economies of scale. The economy of scale translates into lower pay-as-you-go prices. 

Increase speed and agility
The flexibility of cloud computing makes it easier for you to develop and deploy applications.

This flexibility provides you with more time to experiment and innovate. When computing in data centers, it may take weeks to obtain new resources that you need. By comparison, cloud computing enables you to access new resources within minutes.

Go global in minutes
The global footprint of the AWS Cloud enables you to deploy applications to customers around the world quickly, while providing them with low latency. This means that even if you are located in a different part of the world than your customers, customers are able to access your applications with minimal delays. 

Later in this course, you will explore the AWS global infrastructure in greater detail. You will examine some of the services that you can use to deliver content to customers around the world.

Additional resources
To learn more about the concepts that were explored in Module 1, review these resources.

AWS glossary
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/glos-chap.html

Whitepaper: Overview of Amazon Web Services
https://d0.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/aws-overview.pdf

AWS Fundamentals: Overview
https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/fundamentals-overview/

What is cloud computing?
https://aws.amazon.com/what-is-cloud-computing/

Types of cloud computing
https://aws.amazon.com/types-of-cloud-computing/

AWS-Types-of-Cloud-Computing_Infrastructure-as-a-Service
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
Infrastructure as a Service, sometimes abbreviated as IaaS, contains the basic building blocks for cloud IT and typically provide access to networking features, computers (virtual or on dedicated hardware), and data storage space. Infrastructure as a Service provides you with the highest level of flexibility and management control over your IT resources and is most similar to existing IT resources that many IT departments and developers are familiar with today.


AWS-Types-of-Cloud-Computing_Platform-as-a-Service
Platform as a Service (PaaS)
Platforms as a service remove the need for organizations to manage the underlying infrastructure (usually hardware and operating systems) and allow you to focus on the deployment and management of your applications. This helps you be more efficient as you don’t need to worry about resource procurement, capacity planning, software maintenance, patching, or any of the other undifferentiated heavy lifting involved in running your application.


AWS-Types-of-Cloud-Computing_Software-as-a-Service
Software as a Service (SaaS)
Software as a Service provides you with a completed product that is run and managed by the service provider. In most cases, people referring to Software as a Service are referring to end-user applications. With a SaaS offering you do not have to think about how the service is maintained or how the underlying infrastructure is managed; you only need to think about how you will use that particular piece of software. A common example of a SaaS application is web-based email where you can send and receive email without having to manage feature additions to the email product or maintaining the servers and operating systems that the email program is running on.

Cloud computing with AWS
https://aws.amazon.com/what-is-aws/

Quiz:
Q: What is cloud computing?
A: On-demand delivery of IT resources and applications through the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing

Q: What is another name for on-premises deployment?
A: Private cloud deployment

Q: How does the scale of cloud computing help you to save costs?
A: The aggregated cloud usage from a large number of customers results in lower pay-as-you-go prices.


