Module 10 introduction

Learning objectives
In this module, you will learn how to:

- Summarize the five pillars of the Well-Architected Framework.  
- Explain the six benefits of cloud computing.
–
We've covered a lot of different AWS services in this course. And as you know, you use each individual service as building blocks for your solutions. There are endless architectures you can create to solve whatever problem you are trying to solve on AWS. You can string together services in a simple or complicated manner. Having a lot of options is great, but how do you know if the architecture you've created is, well, good? 

Let's look at this basic three-tier architecture. Does this look good? Well, we have a load balancer, some instances, and a backend database. Seems all right to me, but what about this alternate architecture? This architecture has now been replicated across Availability Zones or AZs. This is important for reliability. If one AZ is having issues, your application will still be up and running in the second AZ. It's important that you are able to spot deficiencies in architectures like in this simple example. 

Though not all examples are quite as simple. Luckily, there are tools that can help you get there. We're going to cover something called the Well-Architected Framework. This is a tool you can use to evaluate the architectures you build for excellence in a few different categories. The Well-Architected framework has pillars and these pillars are Operational Excellence, Security, Reliability, Performance Efficiency, and Cost Optimization.
