The AWS Well-Architected Framework

The Well-Architected Framework is designed to enable architects, developers, and users of AWS to build secure, high-performing, resilient, and efficient infrastructure for their applications. It's composed of five pillars, to ensure a consistent approach to reviewing and designing of architectures. 

The first pillar is Operational Excellence. And focuses on running and monitoring systems to deliver business value, and with that, continually improving processes and procedures. For example, automating changes with deployment pipelines, or responding to events that are triggered. 

Second, is Security. And as you know, security is priority number 1 at AWS. And this pillar exemplifies it, by checking integrity of data and, for example, protecting systems by using encryption. 

Third, is Reliability. And it focuses on recovery planning, such as recovery from an Amazon DynamoDB disruption. Or EC2 node failure, to how you handle change to meet business and customer demand. 

Fourth, is Performance Efficiency, and it entails using IT and computing resources efficiently. For example, using the right Amazon EC2 type, based on workload and memory requirements, to making informed decisions, to maintain efficiency as business needs evolve. 

Lastly, we have Cost Optimization. Which looks at optimizing full cost. This is controlling where money is spent. And, for example, checking if you have overestimated your EC2 server size. You can then lower cost by choosing a more cost-effective size. 

In the past, you'd need to evaluate these against your AWS infrastructure with the help of a Solutions Architect. Not that you can't, and aren't still encouraged to do that, but we listened to customer feedback, and decided to release the Framework as a self-service tool, the Well-Architected Tool. You can access it by the AWS Management Console. Create a workload and run it against your AWS account. To generate a report, showing areas that should be addressed. 
It kinda looks like a traffic light system, with green being A-okay captain, keep up the good work. Orange being, you should probably look into this 'cause there's room for improvement. And red being, okay, you should look at this, 'cause something is at risk. These are areas where the tool has detected potential issues, and it presents you with a plan on how to architect, using established best practices. It should be noted that you can always override these settings if the questions don't apply to your scenario. It's very customizable. Interesting side note, where I'm from, South Africa, we call traffic lights robots. 

If we take a look at the tool itself, you'll see something similar to the following screenshot. As I mentioned, we name our workload and that appears in Section One. Section Two shows you the pillars and drop-downs into the questions for each. Section Three shows the actual questions themselves, Four is the pillar and question stem. Five is a bit of background, and the recommendation. Six is the answer you provide with a toggle to designate whether the question is applicable or not. This is important as it affects your overall score. Oh, and I can't forget Section Seven, where you'll be presented with short videos explaining how to answer a particular question. 

Anyhow, that's the Well-Architected Framework and tool. Hope you have enjoyed learning how to evaluate your workloads.



The AWS Well-Architected Framework
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf

The AWS Well-Architected Framework helps you understand how to design and operate reliable, secure, efficient, and cost-effective systems in the AWS Cloud. It provides a way for you to consistently measure your architecture against best practices and design principles and identify areas for improvement.


Icons to represent the five pillars of the AWS Well-Architected Framework: Operational excellence, Security, Reliability, Performance efficiency, and Cost optimization


The Well-Architected Framework is based on five pillars: 

- Operational excellence
- Security
- Reliability
- Performance efficiency
- Cost optimization

Operational excellence
Operational excellence is the ability to run and monitor systems to deliver business value and to continually improve supporting processes and procedures.  

Design principles for operational excellence in the cloud include performing operations as code, annotating documentation, anticipating failure, and frequently making small, reversible changes.


Security
The Security pillar is the ability to protect information, systems, and assets while delivering business value through risk assessments and mitigation strategies. 

When considering the security of your architecture, apply these best practices:
- Automate security best practices when possible.
- Apply security at all layers.
- Protect data in transit and at rest.


Reliability
Reliability is the ability of a system to do the following:
- Recover from infrastructure or service disruptions
- Dynamically acquire computing resources to meet demand
- Mitigate disruptions such as misconfigurations or transient network issues
Reliability includes testing recovery procedures, scaling horizontally to increase aggregate system availability, and automatically recovering from failure.


Performance efficiency 
Performance efficiency is the ability to use computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve. 

Evaluating the performance efficiency of your architecture includes experimenting more often, using serverless architectures, and designing systems to be able to go global in minutes.


Cost optimization
Cost optimization is the ability to run systems to deliver business value at the lowest price point. 

Cost optimization includes adopting a consumption model, analyzing and attributing expenditure, and using managed services to reduce the cost of ownership.


Knowledge check
1) Which pillar of the AWS Well-Architected Framework focuses on the ability of a workload to consistently and correctly perform its intended functions? 

The correct response option is Reliability.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
- The Operational Excellence pillar includes the ability to run workloads effectively, gain insights into their operations, and continuously improve supporting processes to deliver business value.
- The Performance Efficiency pillar focuses on using computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements, and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve.
- The Security pillar includes protecting data, systems, and assets, and using cloud technologies to improve the security of your workloads.

Learn more:
Whitepaper: AWS Well-Architected Framework
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf
