Module 10 quiz

Test your knowledge of some of the key concepts from this module by answering the questions in this quiz.

After answering each question, review the detailed answer explanations and external links to reinforce your understanding of the concepts.


1) Which pillar of the AWS Well-Architected Framework includes the ability to run workloads effectively and gain insights into their operations?

The correct response option is Operational Excellence.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
- The Cost Optimization pillar focuses on the ability to run systems to deliver business value at the lowest price point.
- The Performance Efficiency pillar focuses on using computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve.
- The Reliability pillar focuses on the ability of a workload to consistently and correctly perform its intended functions.

Learn more:
Whitepaper: AWS Well-Architected Framework
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf


2) What are the benefits of cloud computing? (Select TWO.)
The two correct response options are: 
- Increase speed and agility.
- Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers.

The six advantages of cloud computing are:
- Trade upfront expense for variable expense.
- Benefit from massive economies of scale.
- Stop guessing capacity.
- Increase speed and agility.
- Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers.
- Go global in minutes.

Learn more:
Six advantages of cloud computing
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-overview/six-advantages-of-cloud-computing.html
