Exam strategies

This section explores several strategies that can help you to increase the probability of passing the exam.

To learn more, select the + symbol next to each strategy.

Read the full question.
First, make sure that you read each question in full. Key words or phrases in the question that, if left unread, could result in you selecting an incorrect response option.

Predict the answer before reviewing the response options.
Next, try to predict the correct answer before looking at any of the response options. 

This strategy helps you to draw directly from your knowledge and skills without distraction from incorrect response options. If your prediction turns out to be one of the response options, this can be helpful for knowing whether you’re on the right track. However, make sure that you review all the other response options for that question.


Eliminate incorrect response options.
Before selecting your response to a question, eliminate any options that you believe to be incorrect. 

This strategy helps you to focus on the correct option (or options, for multiple-response questions) and ensure that you have fulfilled all the requirements of the question.


Multiple choice
AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner exam results are reported as a score from 100–1,000. What is the minimum passing score?
The correct response option is 700. 

Key words and phrases that you might have identified in this question include minimum and AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner.

Multiple response
Which domains are included on the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner exam? (Select TWO.)

Strategy: Think back to the exam domains that were reviewed earlier in this module. Based on the domains that you recall learning about, which response options do you think that you can eliminate as incorrect?

The two correct response options are:
- Security and Compliance
- Billing and Pricing
Key words and phrases that you might have identified in this question include domains and AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner.

The other three response options are domains that are included on the AWS Certified SysOps Administrator – Associate exam.


As you continue to prepare for the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner exam, review the sample exam questions and detailed answer explanations.
https://d1.awsstatic.com/training-and-certification/docs-cloud-practitioner/AWS-Certified-Cloud-Practitioner_Sample-Questions.pdf
