Amazon EC2 pricing

Amazon EC2 purhcase options
- On-Demand per hour/per second; don't need prior contracts
 On-Demand. What that means is that you only pay for the duration that your instance runs for. This can be per hour or per second, depending on the instance type and operating system you choose to run. Plus, no long-term commitments or upfront payments are needed. This type of pricing is usually for when you get started and want to spin up servers to test out workloads and play around. You don't need any prior contracts or communication with AWS to use On-Demand pricing. 

- Savings Plans -Savings Plan offers low prices on EC2 usage in exchange for a commitment to a consistent amount of usage measured in dollars per hour for a one or three-year term. This flexible pricing model can therefore provide savings of up to 72% on your AWS compute usage. This can lower prices on your EC2 usage, regardless of instance family, size, OS, tenancy, or AWS region. This also applies to AWS Fargate and AWS Lambda usage, which are serverless compute options that we will cover later in this course. 

- Reserved Instances - predictable usage
- Reserved Instances. These are suited for steady-state workloads or ones with predictable usage and offer you up to a 75% discount versus On-Demand pricing. You qualify for a discount once you commit to a one or three-year term and can pay for them with three payment options: all upfront, where you pay for them in full when you commit; partial upfront, where you pay for a portion when you commit; and no upfront, where you don't pay anything at the beginning. 

- Spot Instances, and they allow you to request spare Amazon EC2 computing capacity for up to 90% off of the On-Demand price. The catch here is that AWS can reclaim the instance at any time they need it, giving you a two-minute warning to finish up work and save state. You can always resume later if needed. So when choosing Spot Instances, make sure your workloads can tolerate being interrupted. A good example of those are batch workloads. 

- Dedicated Hosts, which are physical hosts dedicated for your use for EC2. These are usually for meeting certain compliance requirements and nobody else will share tenancy of that host.

With Amazon EC2, you pay only for the compute time that you use. Amazon EC2 offers a variety of pricing options for different use cases. For example, if your use case can withstand interruptions, you can save with Spot Instances. You can also save by committing early and locking in a minimum level of use with Reserved Instances.

On-Demand Instances are ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted. No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply. The instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use.

Sample use cases for On-Demand Instances include developing and testing applications and running applications that have unpredictable usage patterns. On-Demand Instances are not recommended for workloads that last a year or longer because these workloads can experience greater cost savings using Reserved Instances.

AWS offers Savings Plans for several compute services, including Amazon EC2. Amazon EC2 Savings Plans enable you to reduce your compute costs by committing to a consistent amount of compute usage for a 1-year or 3-year term. This term commitment results in savings of up to 72% over On-Demand costs.

Any usage up to the commitment is charged at the discounted Savings Plan rate (for example, $10 an hour). Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular On-Demand rates.

Later in this course, you will review AWS Cost Explorer, a tool that enables you to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time. If you are considering your options for Savings Plans, AWS Cost Explorer can analyze your Amazon EC2 usage over the past 7, 30, or 60 days. AWS Cost Explorer also provides customized recommendations for Savings Plans. These recommendations estimate how much you could save on your monthly Amazon EC2 costs, based on previous Amazon EC2 usage and the hourly commitment amount in a 1-year or 3-year Savings Plan.

Reserved Instances are a billing discount applied to the use of On-Demand Instances in your account. You can purchase Standard Reserved and Convertible Reserved Instances for a 1-year or 3-year term, and Scheduled Reserved Instances for a 1-year term. You realize greater cost savings with the 3-year option.

At the end of a Reserved Instance term, you can continue using the Amazon EC2 instance without interruption. However, you are charged On-Demand rates until you do one of the following:
Terminate the instance.
Purchase a new Reserved Instance that matches the instance attributes (instance type, Region, tenancy, and platform).


Spot Instances are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions. Spot Instances use unused Amazon EC2 computing capacity and offer you cost savings at up to 90% off of On-Demand prices.

Suppose that you have a background processing job that can start and stop as needed (such as the data processing job for a customer survey). You want to start and stop the processing job without affecting the overall operations of your business. If you make a Spot request and Amazon EC2 capacity is available, your Spot Instance launches. However, if you make a Spot request and Amazon EC2 capacity is unavailable, the request is not successful until capacity becomes available. The unavailable capacity might delay the launch of your background processing job.

After you have launched a Spot Instance, if capacity is no longer available or demand for Spot Instances increases, your instance may be interrupted. This might not pose any issues for your background processing job. However, in the earlier example of developing and testing applications, you would most likely want to avoid unexpected interruptions. Therefore, choose a different EC2 instance type that is ideal for those tasks.


Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully dedicated to your use. 

You can use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses to help maintain license compliance. You can purchase On-Demand Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Hosts Reservations. Of all the Amazon EC2 options that were covered, Dedicated Hosts are the most expensive.

Knowledge Check
What is the difference between Amazon EC2 Savings Plans and Spot Instances?
Amazon EC2 Savings Plans are ideal for workloads that involve a consistent amount of compute usage over a 1-year or 3-year term. 

With Amazon EC2 Savings Plans, you can reduce your compute costs by up to 72% over On-Demand costs.


Spot Instances are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions. With Spot Instances, you can reduce your compute costs by up to 90% over On-Demand costs. 

Unlike Amazon EC2 Savings Plans, Spot Instances do not require contracts or a commitment to a consistent amount of compute usage. 
