Messaging and queuing

Monolithic applications and microservices
Tightly coupled archictect

More reliable is Loosely coupled architecture 

Amazon SQS queues: 
where messages are placed until they are processed

Send messages
Store messages
Receive messages
Between software components 
At any volume

Payload: the data contained in a message

Amazon SNS Simple Notifications
Amazon SNS topic: A channel for messages to be delivered
SNS can be used to fan out notifications to end users using mobile push, SMS, and email. Taking this back to our coffee shop, we could send out a notification when a customer's order is ready. This could be a simple SMS to let them know to pick it up or even a mobile push. 

Monolithic applications and microservices
Applications are made of multiple components. The components communicate with each other to transmit data, fulfill requests, and keep the application running. 

Suppose that you have an application with tightly coupled components. These components might include databases, servers, the user interface, business logic, and so on. This type of architecture can be considered a monolithic application. 

In this approach to application architecture, if a single component fails, other components fail, and possibly the entire application fails.

To help maintain application availability when a single component fails, you can design your application through a microservices approach.

In a microservices approach, application components are loosely coupled. In this case, if a single component fails, the other components continue to work because they are communicating with each other. The loose coupling prevents the entire application from failing. 

When designing applications on AWS, you can take a microservices approach with services and components that fulfill different functions. Two services facilitate application integration: Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) and Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS).


Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)
Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) is a publish/subscribe service. Using Amazon SNS topics, a publisher publishes messages to subscribers. This is similar to the coffee shop; the cashier provides coffee orders to the barista who makes the drinks.

In Amazon SNS, subscribers can be web servers, email addresses, AWS Lambda functions, or several other options. 

Example: Amazon SNS
Publishing updates from a single topic

Suppose that the coffee shop has a single newsletter that includes updates from all areas of its business. It includes topics such as coupons, coffee trivia, and new products. All of these topics are grouped because this is a single newsletter. All customers who subscribe to the newsletter receive updates about coupons, coffee trivia, and new products.

After a while, some customers express that they would prefer to receive separate newsletters for only the specific topics that interest them. The coffee shop owners decide to try this approach.

Publishing updates from multiple topics
Now, instead of having a single newsletter for all topics, the coffee shop has broken it up into three separate newsletters. Each newsletter is devoted to a specific topic: coupons, coffee trivia, and new products.

Subscribers will now receive updates immediately for only the specific topics to which they have subscribed.

It is possible for subscribers to subscribe to a single topic or to multiple topics. For example, the first customer subscribes to only the coupons topic, and the second subscriber subscribes to only the coffee trivia topic. The third customer subscribes to both the coffee trivia and new products topics.



Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS)
Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) is a message queuing service. 

Using Amazon SQS, you can send, store, and receive messages between software components, without losing messages or requiring other services to be available. In Amazon SQS, an application sends messages into a queue. A user or service retrieves a message from the queue, processes it, and then deletes it from the queue.

Although this example from the coffee shop involves subscribers who are people, in Amazon SNS, subscribers can be web servers, email addresses, AWS Lambda functions, or several other options.



Example: Amazon SQS
Example: Fulfilling an order
Process diagram of an order being taken and fulfilled in the coffee shop
Customer orders > the cashier gives order to the barista > the barista makes the drink and gives it to the customer

Suppose that the coffee shop has an ordering process in which a cashier takes orders, and a barista makes the orders. Think of the cashier and the barista as two separate components of an application. 

First, the cashier takes an order and writes it down on a piece of paper. Next, the cashier delivers the paper to the barista. Finally, the barista makes the drink and gives it to the customer.

When the next order comes in, the process repeats. This process runs smoothly as long as both the cashier and the barista are coordinated.

What might happen if the cashier took an order and went to deliver it to the barista, but the barista was out on a break or busy with another order? The cashier would need to wait until the barista is ready to accept the order. This would cause delays in the ordering process and require customers to wait longer to receive their orders.

As the coffee shop has become more popular and the ordering line is moving more slowly, the owners notice that the current ordering process is time consuming and inefficient. They decide to try a different approach that uses a queue.

Example: Orders in a queue
The customer orders > the order goes into a queue > the barista retrives teh order from the queue > The barista makes the drink and gives it to the customer

Recall that the cashier and the barista are two separate components of an application. A message queuing service such as Amazon SQS enables messages between decoupled application complements.

In this example, the first step in the process remains the same as before: a customer places an order with the cashier. 

The cashier puts the order into a queue. You can think of this as an order board that serves as a buffer between the cashier and the barista. Even if the barista is out on a break or busy with another order, the cashier can continue placing new orders into the queue. 

Next, the barista checks the queue and retrieves the order.

The barista prepares the drink and gives it to the customer. 

The barista then removes the completed order from the queue. 

While the barista is preparing the drink, the cashier is able to continue taking new orders and add them to the queue.

For decoupled applications and microservices, Amazon SQS enables you to send, store, and retrieve messages between components. 

This decoupled approach enables the separate components to work more efficiently and independently. 


Which AWS service is the best choice for publishing messages to subscribers?
The correct response option is Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS).
 
Amazon SNS is a publish/subscribe service. Using Amazon SNS topics, a publisher publishes messages to subscribers.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
 
Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) is a message queuing service. It does not use the message subscription and topic model that is involved with Amazon SNS.
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling enables you to automatically add or remove Amazon EC2 instances in response to changing application demand.
Elastic Load Balancing is the AWS service that automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances.
Learn more:
Amazon SNS
