Module 2 quiz

You want to use an Amazon EC2 instance for a batch processing workload. What would be the best Amazon EC2 instance type to use? The correct response option is Compute optimized.

What are the contract length options for Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances? (Select TWO.)
The two correct response options are:
1 year
3 years
Reserved Instances require a commitment of either 1 year or 3 years. The 3-year option offers a larger discount.

Learn more:
Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances

You have a workload that will run for a total of 6 months and can withstand interruptions. What would be the most cost-efficient Amazon EC2 purchasing option?
The correct response option is Spot Instance.
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/

Which process is an example of Elastic Load Balancing?
The correct response option is Ensuring that no single Amazon EC2 instance has to carry the full workload on its own.
Elastic Load Balancing is the AWS service that automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances. This helps to ensure that no single resource becomes overutilized.
 
The other response options are all examples of Auto Scaling.

Learn more:
Elastic Load Balancing 
https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/

Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/autoscaling/


You want to deploy and manage containerized applications. Which service should you use?
The correct response option is Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS).
 
Amazon EKS is a fully managed Kubernetes service. Kubernetes is open-source software that enables you to deploy and manage containerized applications at scale.
