Module 2 introduction
Learning objectives
In this module, you will learn how to:

Describe the benefits of Amazon EC2 at a basic level.
Identify the different Amazon EC2 instance types.
Differentiate between the various billing options for Amazon EC2.
Summarize the benefits of Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
Summarize the benefits of Elastic Load Balancing.
Give an example of the uses for Elastic Load Balancing.
Summarize the differences between Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) and Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS).
Summarize additional AWS compute options.


EC2
Need raw compute capcity to hst applications and provide compute power your business needs.
Highly flexible
Cost effective
Quick

On premise servers costs a lot. Takes time to research. Purchase servers upfront. Then wait for them to get delivered.
Bring them to data center that you own or rent. Install applications, make servers secure amd then you can start hosting your service. And you're stuck with it.


Amazon EC2
AWS built datacenters
AWS secured datacenters
AWS purchased the servers
AWS installed the servers
The servers are online and ready to be used

You can use whatever portion to be used whenever you want.

You can use as much or as little you use. You only pay for what you use.

You asre sharing host with other instances. 

Multitenancy: Sharing underlying hardware between virtual machines
This idea of sharing underlying hardware is called multitenancy. The hypervisor is responsible for coordinating this multitenancy and it is managed by AWS. The hypervisor is responsible for isolating the virtual machines from each other as they share resources from the host. This means EC2 instances are secure. Even though they may be sharing resources, one EC2 instance is not aware of any other EC2 instances also on that host. They are secure and separate from each other. 


Amazon EC2 configurations
Choose OS on WIndows or Linix
You can also choose software:
internal business apps
Web app
Databases


EC2 instances are also resizable. You might start with a small instance, realize the application you are running is starting to max out that server, and then you can give that instance more memory and more CPU. Which is what we call vertically scaling an instance. 

In essence, you can make instances bigger or smaller whenever you need to. 

You also control the networking aspect of EC2. So what type of requests make it to your server and if they are publicly or privately accessible is something you decide. 


AWS has just made it much, much easier and more cost effective for you to acquire servers through this Compute as a Service model. There's a lot more to learn about EC2. We talked about virtualization and the types of software you can run on an EC2 instance. But there is more you can configure with EC2 as well.




Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/?ec2-whats-new.sort-by=item.additionalFields.postDateTime&ec2-whats-new.sort-order=desc

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud as Amazon EC2 instances.  

Imagine you are responsible for the architecture of your company's resources and need to support new websites. With traditional on-premises resources, you have to do the following:

Spend money upfront to purchase hardware.
Wait for the servers to be delivered to you.
Install the servers in your physical data center.
Make all the necessary configurations.

By comparison, with an Amazon EC2 instance you can use a virtual server to run applications in the AWS Cloud.

You can provision and launch an Amazon EC2 instance within minutes.
You can stop using it when you have finished running a workload.
You pay only for the compute time you use when an instance is running, not when it is stopped or terminated.
You can save costs by paying only for server capacity that you need or want.



How Amazon EC2 works

Launch
First, you launch an instance. Begin by selecting a template with basic configurations for your instance. These configurations include the operating system, application server, or applications. You also select the instance type, which is the specific hardware configuration of your instance. 

Connect
Next, connect to the instance. You can connect to the instance in several ways. Your programs and applications have multiple different methods to connect directly to the instance and exchange data. Users can also connect to the instance by logging in and accessing the computer desktop.

Use
After you have connected to the instance, you can begin using it. You can run commands to install software, add storage, copy and organize files, and more.


Amazon EC2 instance types
