Module 3 introduction
Learning objectives
In this module, you will learn how to:

Summarize the benefits of the AWS Global Infrastructure.
Describe the basic concept of Availability Zones.
Describe the benefits of Amazon CloudFront and edge locations.
Compare different methods for provisioning AWS services.

High availability and fault tolerance

AWS is all around the world in different regions



To understand the AWS global infrastructure, consider the coffee shop. If an event such as a parade, flood, or power outage impacts one location, customers can still get their coffee by visiting a different location only a few blocks away.

This is similar to how the AWS global infrastructure works.


AWS global infrastructure
AWS Regions

Selecting a Region
When determining the right Region for your services, data, and applications, consider the following four business factors. 

Compliance with data governance and legal requirements
Depending on your company and location, you might need to run your data out of specific areas. For example, if your company requires all of its data to reside within the boundaries of the UK, you would choose the London Region. 

Not all companies have location-specific data regulations, so you might need to focus more on the other three factors.


Proximity to your customers
Selecting a Region that is close to your customers will help you to get content to them faster. For example, your company is based in Washington, DC, and many of your customers live in Singapore. You might consider running your infrastructure in the Northern Virginia Region to be close to company headquarters, and run your applications from the Singapore Region.

*How close you are to your customer base is a major factor because speed of light, still the law of the universe. If most of your customers live in Singapore, consider running out of the Singapore Region. Now you certainly can run out of Virginia, but the time it takes for the information to be sent, or latency, between the US and Singapore is always going to be a factor. Now we may be developing quantum computing, but quantum networking, still some ways away. The time it takes light to travel around the world is always a consideration. Locating close to your customer base, usually the right call. 


Available services within a Region
Sometimes, the closest Region might not have all the features that you want to offer to customers. AWS is frequently innovating by creating new services and expanding on features within existing services. However, making new services available around the world sometimes requires AWS to build out physical hardware one Region at a time. 

Suppose that your developers want to build an application that uses Amazon Braket (AWS quantum computing platform). As of this course, Amazon Braket is not yet available in every AWS Region around the world, so your developers would have to run it in one of the Regions that already offers it.

Pricing
Suppose that you are considering running applications in both the United States and Brazil. The way Brazil’s tax structure is set up, it might cost 50% more to run the same workload out of the São Paulo Region compared to the Oregon Region. You will learn in more detail that several factors determine pricing, but for now know that the cost of services can vary from Region to Region.



Availability Zones
Run across at least two Availability zones in a Region
An Availability Zone is a single data center or a group of data centers within a Region. Availability Zones are located tens of miles apart from each other. This is close enough to have low latency (the time between when content requested and received) between Availability Zones. However, if a disaster occurs in one part of the Region, they are distant enough to reduce the chance that multiple Availability Zones are affected.

Running Amazon EC2 instances in multiple Availability Zones

    Amazon EC2 instance in a single Availability Zone
    Suppose that you’re running an application on a single Amazon EC2 instance in the Northern California Region. The instance is running in the us-west-1a Availability Zone. If us-west-1a were to fail, you would lose your instance. 

    Amazon EC2 instances in multiple Availability Zones
    A best practice is to run applications across at least two Availability Zones in a Region. In this example, you might choose to run a second Amazon EC2 instance in us-west-1b.

    Availability Zone failure
    If us-west-1a were to fail, your application would still be running in us-west-1b.


    Planning for failure and deploying applications across multiple Availability Zones is an important part of building a resilient and highly available architecture.



Knowledge check
Q:  Which statement best describes an Availability Zone?
A:  A single data center or group of data centers within a Region

Learn more:
AWS global infrastructure
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/

Regions and Availability Zones
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az/


