How to provision AWS resources
How to provision AWS resources with API's. Everything is an API call. You can invoke or call the API


Interacting with AWS Services
  -  AWS Management Console 
  -  AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)
   - AWS Software Development Kits (SDK's)
   - Various other tools like AWS CloudFormation

AWS Management Console is browser base
Script or program instance with AWS Command Line Interface. You can run on a schedult

The SDKs allow you to interact with AWS resources through various programming languages. This makes it easy for developers to create programs that use AWS without using the low level APIs, as well as avoiding that manual resource creation


AWS Management Console 
The AWS Management Console is a web-based interface for accessing and managing AWS services. You can quickly access recently used services and search for other services by name, keyword, or acronym. The console includes wizards and automated workflows that can simplify the process of completing tasks.

You can also use the AWS Console mobile application to perform tasks such as monitoring resources, viewing alarms, and accessing billing information. Multiple identities can stay logged into the AWS Console mobile app at the same time.

AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)
To save time when making API requests, you can use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). AWS CLI enables you to control multiple AWS services directly from the command line within one tool. AWS CLI is available for users on Windows, macOS, and Linux. 

By using AWS CLI, you can automate the actions that your services and applications perform through scripts. For example, you can use commands to launch an Amazon EC2 instance, connect an Amazon EC2 instance to a specific Auto Scaling group, and more.

AWS Software Development Kits (SDK's)
- Various other tools like AWS CloudFormation
Another option for accessing and managing AWS services is the software development kits (SDKs). SDKs make it easier for you to use AWS services through an API designed for your programming language or platform. SDKs enable you to use AWS services with your existing applications or create entirely new applications that will run on AWS.

To help you get started with using SDKs, AWS provides documentation and sample code for each supported programming language. Supported programming languages include C++, Java, .NET, and more.


Interacting with AWS
AWS Management Console
CLI
SDK's

How to provision with AWS
Log into AWS Management Console
Write commands
Write programs

AWS Elastic Beanstalk is a service that helps you provision Amazon EC2-based environments. Instead of clicking around the console or writing multiple commands to build out your network, EC2 instances, scaling and Elastic Load Balancers. You can instead provide your application code and desired configurations to the AWS Elastic Beanstalk service, which then takes that information and builds out your environment for you. AWS Elastic Beanstalk also makes it easy to save environment configurations, so they can be deployed again easily. AWS Elastic Beanstalk gives you the convenience of not having to provision and manage all of these pieces separately, while still giving you the visibility and control of the underlying resources. You get to focus on your business application, not the infrastructure. 

Another service you can use to help create automated and repeatable deployments is AWS CloudFormation. AWS CloudFormation is an infrastructure as code tool that allows you to define a wide variety of AWS resources in a declarative way using JSON or YAML text-based documents called CloudFormation templates. A declarative format like this allows you to define what you want to build without specifying the details of exactly how to build it. CloudFormation lets you define what you want and the CloudFormation engine will worry about the details on calling APIs to get everything built out. 

It also isn't just limited to EC2-based solutions. CloudFormation supports many different AWS resources from storage, databases, analytics, machine learning, and more. Once you define your resources in a CloudFormation template, CloudFormation will parse the template and begin provisioning all the resources you defined in parallel. CloudFormation manages all the calls to the backend AWS APIs for you. You can run the same CloudFormation template in multiple accounts or multiple regions, and it will create identical environments across them. There is less room for human error as it is a totally automated process. 

To recap, the AWS Management Console is great for learning and providing a visual for the user. The AWS Management Console is a manual tool. So right off the bat, it isn't a great option for automation. You can instead use the CLI to script your interactions with AWS using the terminal. You can use the SDKs to write programs to interact with AWS for you or you can use manage tools like AWS Elastic Beanstalk or AWS CloudFormation.



AWS Elastic Beanstalk
With AWS Elastic Beanstalk, you provide code and configuration settings, and Elastic Beanstalk deploys the resources necessary to perform the following tasks:

- Adjust capacity
- Load balancing
- Automatic scaling
- Application health monitoring

AWS CloudFormation
With AWS CloudFormation, you can treat your infrastructure as code. This means that you can build an environment by writing lines of code instead of using the AWS Management Console to individually provision resources.

AWS CloudFormation provisions your resources in a safe, repeatable manner, enabling you to frequently build your infrastructure and applications without having to perform manual actions or write custom scripts. It determines the right operations to perform when managing your stack and rolls back changes automatically if it detects errors.
