Module 3 quiz

Test your knowledge of some of the key concepts from this module by answering the questions in this quiz.

After answering each question, review the detailed answer explanations and external links to reinforce your understanding of the concepts.

1) Which statement is TRUE for the AWS global infrastructure?

A Region consists of two or more Availability Zones.
For example, the South America (São Paulo) Region is sa-east-1. It includes three Availability Zones: sa-east-1a, sa-east-1b, and sa-east-1c.

Learn more:
AWS global infrastructure
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/

Regions and Availability Zones
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az/


2) Which factors should be considered when selecting a Region? (Select TWO.)
The correct two response options are:
Compliance with data governance and legal requirements
Proximity to your customers
Two other factors to consider when selecting a Region are pricing and the services that are available in a Region.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
The level of support that you choose is not determined by Region. AWS Support plans are explored later in this course.
Assigning custom permissions to different users is a feature that is possible in all AWS Regions.
The AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) is available in all AWS Regions.

3) Which statement best describes Amazon CloudFront?
The correct response option is A global content delivery service.
 
Amazon CloudFront is a content delivery service. It uses a network of edge locations to cache content and deliver content to customers all over the world. When content is cached, it is stored locally as a copy. This content might be video files, photos, webpages, and so on.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
AWS Outposts is a service that enables you to run infrastructure in a hybrid cloud approach.
AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers.
Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) is a service that enables you to send, store, and receive messages between software components through a queue.

Learn more:
Amazon CloudFront
https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/

4) Which site does Amazon CloudFront use to cache copies of content for faster delivery to users at any location?
The correct response option is Edge location.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
A Region is a separate geographical location with multiple locations that are isolated from each other.
An Availability Zone is a fully isolated portion of the AWS global infrastructure.
An origin is the server from which CloudFront gets your files. Examples of CloudFront origins include Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) buckets and web servers. Note: Amazon S3 is explored later in this course.
Learn more:
Amazon CloudFront infrastructure
https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/features/?nc=sn&loc=2#Amazon_CloudFront_Infrastructure

5) Which action can you perform with AWS Outposts?
The correct response option is Extend AWS infrastructure and services to your on-premises data center.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
The AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) is used to automate actions for AWS services and applications through scripts.
The AWS Management Console includes wizards and workflows that you can use to complete tasks in AWS services.
Software development kits (SDKs) enable you to develop AWS applications in supported programming languages.
Learn more:
AWS Outposts
