Module 4 introduction

Learning objectives
In this module, you will learn how to:

Describe the basic concepts of networking.
Describe the difference between public and private networking resources. 
Explain a virtual private gateway using a real life scenario. 
Explain a virtual private network (VPN) using a real life scenario.
Describe the benefit of AWS Direct Connect. 
Describe the benefit of hybrid deployments. 
Describe the layers of security used in an IT strategy.
Describe the services customers use to interact with the AWS global network.

If we think back to our coffee shop or AWS account, things by now should be running smoothly. Although, what if we had a few eager customers who wanted to give their orders directly to the baristas instead of the cashier out in front? Well, it doesn't make sense to allow every customer to be able to interact with our baristas since they are focused on brewing some fresh caffeinated beverages. So what do we do? 

That's right, kids, say it with me, Amazon Virtual Private Cloud, or VPCs, as they're affectionately known. A VPC lets you provision a logically isolated section of the AWS Cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that you define. These resources can be public facing so they have access to the internet, or private with no internet access, usually for backend services like databases or application servers. The public and private grouping of resources are known as subnets and they are ranges of IP addresses in your VPC. 

Now, in our coffee shop, we have different employees and one is a cashier. They take customers' orders and thus we want customers to interact with them, so we put them in what we call a public subnet. Hence they can talk to the customers or the internet. But for our baristas, we want them to focus on making coffee and not interact with customers directly, so we put them in a private subnet. 

Okay, let's get into the next video where we'll dive into networking.


Connectivity to AWS

A VPC, or Virtual Private Cloud, is essentially your own private network in AWS. A VPC allows you to define your private IP range for your AWS resources, and you place things like EC2 instances and ELBs inside of your VPC. 

Now you don't just go throw your resources into a VPC and move on. You place them into different subnets. Subnets are chunks of IP addresses in your VPC that allow you to group resources together. Subnets, along with networking rules we will cover later, control whether resources are either publicly or privately available. What we haven't told you yet is there are actually ways you can control what traffic gets into your VPC at all. What I mean by this is, for some VPCs, you might have internet-facing resources that the public should be able to reach, like a public website, for example. 

However, in other scenarios, you might have resources that you only want to be reachable if someone is logged into your private network. This might be internal services, like an HR application or a backend database. First, let's talk about public-facing resources. In order to allow traffic from the public internet to flow into and out of your VPC, you must attach what is called an internet gateway, or IGW, to your VPC. 

An internet gateway is like a doorway that is open to the public. Think of our coffee shop. Without a front door, the customers couldn't get in and order their coffee, so we install a front door and the people can then go in and out of that door when coming and going from our shop. The front door in this example is like an internet gateway. Without it, no one can reach the resources placed inside of your VPC. 

Public traffic < Internet Gateway > VPC [Elastic Load Balancer, EC2 Instances, Security Group Database]


Next, let's talk about a VPC with all internal private resources. We don't want just anyone from anywhere to be able to reach these resources. So we don't want an internet gateway attached to our VPC. Instead, we want a private gateway that only allows people in if they are coming from an approved network, not the public internet. This private doorway is called a virtual private gateway, and it allows you to create a VPN connection between a private network, like your on-premises data center or internal corporate network to your VPC. 

To relate this back to the coffee shop, this would be like having a private bus route going from my building to the coffee shop. If I want to go get coffee, I first must badge into the building, thus authenticating my identity, and then I can take the secret bus route to the internal coffee shop that only people from my building can use. So if you want to establish an encrypted VPN connection to your private internal AWS resources, you would need to attach a virtual private gateway to your VPC. 

Now the problem with our super secret bus route is that it still uses the open road. It's susceptible to traffic jams and slowdowns caused by the rest of the world going about their business. The same thing is true for VPN connections. They are private and they are encrypted, but they still use a regular internet connection that has bandwidth that is being shared by many people using the internet. 

So what I've done to make things more reliable and less susceptible to slowdowns is I made a totally separate magic doorway that leads directly from the studio into the coffee shop. No one else driving around on the road can slow me down because this is my direct doorway; no one else can use it. What, did you not have a secret magic doorway into your favorite coffee shop? All right, moving on. The point being is you still want a private connection, but you want it to be dedicated and shared with no one else. You want the lowest amount of latency possible with the highest amount of security possible. 

With AWS, you can achieve that using what is called AWS Direct Connect. Direct Connect allows you to establish a completely private, dedicated fiber connection from your data center to AWS. You work with a Direct Connect partner in your area to establish this connection, because like my magic doorway, AWS Direct Connect provides a physical line that connects your network to your AWS VPC. This can help you meet high regulatory and compliance needs, as well as sidestep any potential bandwidth issues. It's also important to note that one VPC might have multiple types of gateways attached for multiple types of resources all residing in the same VPC, just in different subnets. 


Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC)
Imagine the millions of customers who use AWS services. Also, imagine the millions of resources that these customers have created, such as Amazon EC2 instances. Without boundaries around all of these resources, network traffic would be able to flow between them unrestricted. 

A networking service that you can use to establish boundaries around your AWS resources is Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC).
https://aws.amazon.com/vpc/

Amazon VPC enables you to provision an isolated section of the AWS Cloud. In this isolated section, you can launch resources in a virtual network that you define. Within a virtual private cloud (VPC), you can organize your resources into subnets. A subnet is a section of a VPC that can contain resources such as Amazon EC2 instances.

Internet gateway
To allow public traffic from the internet to access your VPC, you attach an internet gateway to the VPC.

Diagram is supposed to be here but typing it out
Client ---------A client sends a request through the internet and into the VPC-----> [AWS Cloud [VPC | Internet Gateway[Subnet (Amazon EC2 instances]]]

An internet gateway is a connection between a VPC and the internet. You can think of an internet gateway as being similar to a doorway that customers use to enter the coffee shop. Without an internet gateway, no one can access the resources within your VPC.

What if you have a VPC that includes only private resources?
Virtual private gateway
To access private resources in a VPC, you can use a virtual private gateway. 

Here’s an example of how a virtual private gateway works. You can think of the internet as the road between your home and the coffee shop. Suppose that you are traveling on this road with a bodyguard to protect you. You are still using the same road as other customers, but with an extra layer of protection. 

The bodyguard is like a virtual private network (VPN) connection that encrypts (or protects) your internet traffic from all the other requests around it. 

The virtual private gateway is the component that allows protected internet traffic to enter into the VPC. Even though your connection to the coffee shop has extra protection, traffic jams are possible because you’re using the same road as other customers. 


Diagram is supposed to be here but typing it out
[Corporate data center Content router/firewall]---------Internet and VPN Connection-----> [AWS Cloud [VPC | Internet Gateway[Subnet (Databases)]]]

A virtual private gateway enables you to establish a virtual private network (VPN) connection between your VPC and a private network, such as an on-premises data center or internal corporate network. A virtual private gateway allows traffic into the VPC only if it is coming from an approved network.


AWS Direct Connect
https://aws.amazon.com/directconnect/

AWS Direct Connect is a service that enables you to establish a dedicated private connection between your data center and a VPC.  

Suppose that there is an apartment building with a hallway directly linking the building to the coffee shop. Only the residents of the apartment building can travel through this hallway. 

This private hallway provides the same type of dedicated connection as AWS Direct Connect. Residents are able to get into the coffee shop without needing to use the public road shared with other customers. 

Diagram is supposed to be here but typing it out
[Corporate data center Content router/firewall]---------[AWS DIrect Connect location[Customer or partner router][AWS Direct Connect endpoint]]-----> [AWS Cloud [VPC | Virtual private gateway[[Public Subnet/Amazon EC2 instances ][Private Subnet (Databases)]]]

The private connection that AWS Direct Connect provides helps you to reduce network costs and increase the amount of bandwidth that can travel through your network.
