Global networking

We've been talking a lot about how you interact with your AWS infrastructure. But how do your customers interact with your AWS infrastructure? Well, if you have a website hosted at AWS, then customers usually enter your website into their browser, hit Enter, some magic happens, and the site opens up. 

But how does this magic work? Well, just like this magic coin that I have here, you know, you take a bite, and it's, it's back. Well, not quite like that, but I'm going to take you through two services, which would help in the website case. The first one being Route 53. Route 53 is AWS's domain name service, or DNS, and it's highly available and scalable. But wait, what is DNS, you say? Think of DNS as a translation service. But instead of translating between languages, it translates website names into IP, or Internet Protocol, addresses that computers can read. 

For example, when we enter a website address into our browser, it contacts Route 53 to obtain the IP address of the site, say, 192.1.1.1, then it routes your computer or browser to that address. If we go further, Route 53 can direct traffic to different endpoints using several different routing policies, such as latency-based routing, geolocation DNS, geoproximity, and weighted round robin. If we take geolocation DNS, that means we direct traffic based on where the customer is located. So traffic coming from say North America is routed to the Oregon Region, and traffic in Ireland is routed to the Dublin Region, as an example. 

You can even use Route 53 to register domain names, so you can buy and manage your own domain names right on AWS. 

Speaking of websites, there is another service which can help speed up delivery of website assets to customers, Amazon CloudFront. If you remember, we talked about Edge locations earlier in the course, these locations are serving content as close to customers as possible, and one part of that, is the content delivery network, or CDN. For those who need reminding, a CDN is a network that helps to deliver edge content to users based on their geographic location. 
If we go back to our North America versus Ireland example, say we have a user in Seattle, and they want to access a website, to speed this up, we host the site in Oregon, and we deploy our static web assets, like images and GIFs in CloudFront in North America. This means they get content delivered as close to them as possible, North America in this case, when they access the site. But for our Irish users, it doesn't make sense to deliver those assets out of Oregon, as the latency is not favorable. Thus we deploy those same static assets in CloudFront, but this time in the Dublin Region. That means they can access the same content, but from a location closer to them, which in turn improves latency. 

I hope you're content after learning about these two services. Thanks for following along, and I'm going to disappear just like this red cloth. Tada!


Domain Name System (DNS)
Suppose that AnyCompany has a website hosted in the AWS Cloud. Customers enter the web address into their browser, and they are able to access the website. This happens because of Domain Name System (DNS) resolution. DNS resolution involves a DNS server communicating with a web server.

You can think of DNS as being the phone book of the internet. DNS resolution is the process of translating a domain name to an IP address.

Diagram is supposed to be here but I am typing it out
Customer and PC ----> DNS Server ---->What is the IP address for AnyCompany's website--->Webserver
                                                                                <------192.0.2.0 
                                                                                
                                                                                
For example, suppose that you want to visit AnyCompany’s website. 
1) When you enter the domain name into your browser, this request is sent to a DNS server. 
2) The DNS server asks the web server for the IP address that corresponds to AnyCompany’s website.
3) The web server responds by providing the IP address for AnyCompany’s website, 192.0.2.0.

Amazon Route 53
https://aws.amazon.com/route53/
Amazon Route 53 is a DNS web service. It gives developers and businesses a reliable way to route end users to internet applications hosted in AWS. 

Amazon Route 53 connects user requests to infrastructure running in AWS (such as Amazon EC2 instances and load balancers). It can route users to infrastructure outside of AWS.

Another feature of Route 53 is the ability to manage the DNS records for domain names. You can register new domain names directly in Route 53. You can also transfer DNS records for existing domain names managed by other domain registrars. This enables you to manage all of your domain names within a single location.

In the previous module, you learned about Amazon CloudFront, a content delivery service. The following example describes how Route 53 and Amazon CloudFront work together to deliver content to customers.


Diagram is supposed to be here but I am typing it out
Architecture diagram of Amazon Route 53 and Amazon CloudFront working together to deliver content from Amazon EC2 instances


Suppose that AnyCompany’s application is running on several Amazon EC2 instances. These instances are in an Auto Scaling group that attaches to an Application Load Balancer. 

1) A customer requests data from the application by going to AnyCompany’s website. 
2) Amazon Route 53 uses DNS resolution to identify AnyCompany.com’s corresponding IP address, 192.0.2.0. This information is sent back to the customer. 
3) The customer’s request is sent to the nearest edge location through Amazon CloudFront. 
4) Amazon CloudFront connects to the Application Load Balancer, which sends the incoming packet to an Amazon EC2 instance.

Knowledge check
1) Which statement best describes DNS resolution?
The correct response option is Translating a domain name to an IP address.
 
For example, if you want to visit AnyCompany’s website, you enter the domain name into your PC and this request is sent to a DNS server. Next, the DNS server asks the web server for the IP address that corresponds to AnyCompany’s website. The web server responds by providing the IP address for AnyCompany’s website, 192.0.2.0.

Learn more:
Amazon Route 53
https://aws.amazon.com/route53/


