
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)

In object storage, each object consists of data, metadata, and a key.

The data might be an image, video, text document, or any other type of file. Metadata contains information about what the data is, how it is used, the object size, and so on. An object’s key is its unique identifier.

Recall that when you modify a file in block storage, only the pieces that are changed are updated. When a file in object storage is modified, the entire object is updated.

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
https://aws.amazon.com/s3/

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is a service that provides object-level storage. Amazon S3 stores data as objects in buckets.

You can upload any type of file to Amazon S3, such as images, videos, text files, and so on. For example, you might use Amazon S3 to store backup files, media files for a website, or archived documents. Amazon S3 offers unlimited storage space. The maximum file size for an object in Amazon S3 is 5 TB.

When you upload a file to Amazon S3, you can set permissions to control visibility and access to it. You can also use the Amazon S3 versioning feature to track changes to your objects over time.

Amazon S3 storage classes
https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/

With Amazon S3, you pay only for what you use. You can choose from a range of storage classes to select a fit for your business and cost needs. When selecting an Amazon S3 storage class, consider these two factors:

How often you plan to retrieve your data
How available you need your data to be

To learn more about the Amazon S3 storage classes select the + symbol next to each category.


S3 Standard
- Designed for frequently accessed data
- Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones
S3 Standard provides high availability for objects. This makes it a good choice for a wide range of use cases, such as websites, content distribution, and data analytics. S3 Standard has a higher cost than other storage classes intended for infrequently accessed data and archival storage.

S3 Standard-IA
- Ideal for infrequently accessed data
- Similar to S3 Standard but has a lower storage price and higher retrieval price
S3 Standard-IA is ideal for data infrequently accessed but requires high availability when needed. Both S3 Standard and S3 Standard-IA store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones. S3 Standard-IA provides the same level of availability as S3 Standard but with a lower storage price and a higher retrieval price.

S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA)
- Stores data in a single Availability Zone
- Has a lower storage price than S3 Standard-IA
Compared to S3 Standard and S3 Standard-IA, which store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones, S3 One Zone-IA stores data in a single Availability Zone. This makes it a good storage class to consider if the following conditions apply:
- You want to save costs on storage.
- You can easily reproduce your data in the event of an Availability Zone failure.


S3 Intelligent-Tiering
- Ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns
- Requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object
In the S3 Intelligent-Tiering storage class, Amazon S3 monitors objects’ access patterns. If you haven’t accessed an object for 30 consecutive days, Amazon S3 automatically moves it to the infrequent access tier, S3 Standard-IA. If you access an object in the infrequent access tier, Amazon S3 automatically moves it to the frequent access tier, S3 Standard.

S3 Glacier
- Low-cost storage designed for data archiving
- Able to retrieve objects within a few minutes to hours
S3 Glacier is a low-cost storage class that is ideal for data archiving. For example, you might use this storage class to store archived customer records or older photos and video files.

Glacier Deep Archive
- Lowest-cost object storage class ideal for archiving
- Able to retrieve objects within 12 hours
When deciding between Amazon S3 Glacier and Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive, consider how quickly you need to retrieve archived objects. You can retrieve objects stored in the S3 Glacier storage class within a few minutes to a few hours. By comparison, you can retrieve objects stored in the S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage class within 12 hours.


Knowledge Check
You want to store data that is infrequently accessed but must be immediately available when needed. Which Amazon S3 storage class should you use?
The correct response option is S3 Standard-IA.
 
The S3 Standard-IA storage class is ideal for data that is infrequently accessed but requires high availability when needed. Both S3 Standard and S3 Standard-IA store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones. S3 Standard-IA provides the same level of availability as S3 Standard but at a lower storage price.



Comparing Amazon EBS and Amazon S3
AWS Cloud Practitioners, welcome to the clash of the storage class! In the block storage corner, weighing in at sizes up to 16 tebibytes each, with a unique ability to survive the termination of their Amazon EC2 instances, they are solid state, they are spinning platters, they are Amazon Elastic Block Storage! 

In the regional object storage corner, weighing in at unlimited storage, with individual objects at 5,000 gigabytes in size, they specialize in write once/read many, they are 99 .999 999 999% durable, they are Amazon Simple Storage Service! 

Head-to-head, each storage class boasts the best dynamically distributed design for different storage demands. Which storage class will ultimately be victorious in this thunderdome slugfest? To understand who wins, you need to clarify a use case. 

Round one. Let's say you're running a photo analysis website where users upload a photo of themselves, and your application finds the animals that look just like them. You have potentially millions of animal pictures that all need to be indexed and possibly viewed by thousands of people at once. This is the perfect use case for S3. S3 is already web enabled. Every object already has a URL that you can control access rights to who can see or manage the image. It's regionally distributed, which means that it has 11 nines of durability, so no need to worry about backup strategies. S3 is your backup strategy. Plus the cost savings is substantial overrunning the same storage load on EBS. With the additional advantage of being serverless, no Amazon EC2 instances are needed. Sounds like S3 is the judge's winner here for this round. 

But wait, round two, you have an 80-gigabyte video file that you're making edit corrections on. To know the best storage class here, we need to understand the difference between object storage and block storage. Object storage treats any file as a complete, discreet object. Now this is great for documents, and images, and video files that get uploaded and consumed as entire objects, but every time there's a change to the object, you must re-upload the entire file. There are no delta updates. Block storage breaks those files down to small component parts or blocks. This means, for that 80-gigabyte file, when you make an edit to one scene in the film and save that change, the engine only updates the blocks where those bits live. If you're making a bunch of micro edits, using EBS, elastic block storage, is the perfect use case. If you were using S3, every time you saved the changes, the system would have to upload all 80 gigabytes, the whole thing, every time. EBS clearly wins round two. 

This means, if you are using complete objects or only occasional changes, S3 is victorious. If you are doing complex read, right, change functions, then, absolutely, EBS is your knockout winner. Your winner depends on your individual workload. Each service is the right service for specific needs. Once you understand what you need, you will know which service is your champion!
