Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)
https://aws.amazon.com/efs/


Next up on the list of storage services is Amazon Elastic File System, or what we call EFS. EFS is a managed file system. It's extremely common for businesses to have shared file systems across their applications. For example, you might have multiple servers running analytics on large amounts of data being stored in a shared file system. This data traditionally has been hosted on premises. In this on-premises data center, you would have to ensure that the storage you have can keep up with the amount of data that you are storing. Make sure backups are taken, and that the data is stored redundantly as well as manage all of the servers hosting that data. 

Luckily with AWS, you don't need to worry about buying all of that hardware and keeping the whole file system running from an operational standpoint. With EFS, you can keep existing file systems in place but let AWS do all the heavy lifting of the scaling and the replication. EFS allows you to have multiple instances accessing the data in EFS at the same time. It scales up and down as needed without you needing to do anything to make that scaling happen. Super nice, right? Well, you might be thinking, Amazon EBS also lets me store files that I can access from EC2 instances. What exactly is the difference here?

[Blaine] AWS Cloud Practitioners, welcome back!

[Morgan] All right, we don't need to do all of that. The answer is really simple. Amazon EBS volumes attach to EC2 instances and are an Availability Zone-level resource. In order to attach EC2 to EBS, you need to be in the same AZ. You can save files on it. You can also run a database on top of it. Or store applications on it. It's a hard drive. If you provision a two terabyte EBS volume and fill it up, it doesn't automatically scale to give you more storage. So that's EBS. Amazon EFS can have multiple instances reading and writing from it at the same time.

But it isn't just a blank hard drive that you can write to. It is a true file system for Linux. It is also a regional resource. Meaning any EC2 instance in the Region can write to the EFS file system. As you write more data to EFS, it automatically scales. No need to provision any more volumes.



File storage
In file storage, multiple clients (such as users, applications, servers, and so on) can access data that is stored in shared file folders. In this approach, a storage server uses block storage with a local file system to organize files. Clients access data through file paths.

Compared to block storage and object storage, file storage is ideal for use cases in which a large number of services and resources need to access the same data at the same time.

Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) is a scalable file system used with AWS Cloud services and on-premises resources. As you add and remove files, Amazon EFS grows and shrinks automatically. It can scale on demand to petabytes without disrupting applications. 


Comparing Amazon EBS and Amazon EFS

Amazon EBS 
An Amazon EBS volume stores data in a single Availability Zone. 

To attach an Amazon EC2 instance to an EBS volume, both the Amazon EC2 instance and the EBS volume must reside within the same Availability Zone.

Amazon EFS 
Amazon EFS is a regional service. It stores data in and across multiple Availability Zones. 

The duplicate storage enables you to access data concurrently from all the Availability Zones in the Region where a file system is located. Additionally, on-premises servers can access Amazon EFS using AWS Direct Connect.
