Amazon DynamoDB

Let's talk about Amazon DynamoDB. At its most basic level, DynamoDB is a database. It's a serverless database, meaning you don't need to manage the underlying instances or infrastructure powering it. 

With DynamoDB, you create tables. A DynamoDB table, is just a place where you can store and query data. Data is organized into items, and items have attributes. Attributes are just different features of your data. If you have one item in your table, or 2 million items in your table, DynamoDB manages the underlying storage for you. And you don't need to worry about the scaling of the system, up or down. 

DynamoDB stores this data redundantly across availability zones and mirrors the data across multiple drives under the hood for you. This makes the burden of operating a highly available database, much lower. 

DynamoDB, beyond being massively scalable, is also highly performant. DynamoDB has a millisecond response time. And when you have applications with potentially millions of users, having scalability and reliable lightning fast response times is important. 

Now, DynamoDB isn't a normal database. In the sense that it doesn't use the very widely used query language, sequel, or SQL. Relational databases, like a standard MySQL Database, require that you have a well defined schema, in place. That might consist of one, or many tables that might relate to each other. You then use SQL to query the data. 

This works great for a lot of use cases, and has been the standard type of database historically. However, these types of rigid SQL databases, can have performance and scaling issues when under stress. The rigid schema also makes it so that you cannot have any variation in the types of data that you store in a table. So, it might not be the best fit for a dataset that is a little bit less rigid, and is being accessed at a very high rate. 

This is where non-relational, or NoSQL, databases come in. DynamoDB is a non-relational database. Non-relational databases tend to have simple flexible schemas, not complex rigid schemas, laying out multiple tables that all relate to each other. 

With DynamoDB, you can add and remove attributes from items in the table, at any time. Not every item in the table has to have the same attributes. This is great for datasets that have some variation from item to item. Because of this flexibility, you cannot run complex SQL queries on it. Instead, you would write queries based on a small subset of attributes that are designated as keys. 

Because of this, the queries that you run are non-relational databases tend to be simpler, and focus on a collection of items from one table, not queries than span multiple tables. This query pattern, along with other factors, including the way that the underlying system is designed, allows DynamoDB to be very quick in response time, and highly scalable. 

So, things to remember: DynamoDB is a non-relational, NoSQL database. It is purpose built. Meaning it has specific use cases, and it isn't the best fit for every workload out there. It has millisecond response time. It's fully managed, and it's highly scalable. One awesome example is on Prime Day in 2019, across the 48 hours of Prime Day, there were 7.11 trillion calls to the DynamoDB API, peaking at 45.4 million requests per second. That's insanely scalable, all without the underlying database management. That's pretty cool.

Nonrelational databases
In a nonrelational database, you create tables. A table is a place where you can store and query data.

Nonrelational databases are sometimes referred to as “NoSQL databases” because they use structures other than rows and columns to organize data. One type of structural approach for nonrelational databases is key-value pairs. With key-value pairs, data is organized into items (keys), and items have attributes (values). You can think of attributes as being different features of your data.

In a key-value database, you can add or remove attributes from items in the table at any time. Additionally, not every item in the table has to have the same attributes. 

Example of data in a nonrelational database:
Key    Value
1    
Name: John Doe

Address: 123 Any Street

Favorite drink: Medium latte
2    
Name: Mary Major

Address: 100 Main Street

Birthday: July 5, 1994


Amazon DynamoDB
Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value database service. It delivers single-digit millisecond performance at any scale.

To learn about features of DynamoDB, select each flashcard to flip it.

Serverless
DynamoDB is serverless, which means that you do not have to provision, patch, or manage servers. 

You also do not have to install, maintain, or operate software.


Automatic Scaling
As the size of your database shrinks or grows, DynamoDB automatically scales to adjust for changes in capacity while maintaining consistent performance. 

This makes it a suitable choice for use cases that require high performance while scaling.



Comparing Amazon RDS and Amazon DynamoDB
AWS Cloud Practitioners, welcome back to the championship chase of the database! In the relational corner, engineered to remove undifferentiated heavy lifting from your database administrators with automatic high availability and recovery provided. You control the data, you control the schema, you control the network. You are running Amazon RDS. Yes, Yeah. 

The NoSQL corner, using a key value pair that requires no advanced schema, able to operate as a global database at the touch of a button. It has massive throughput. It has petabyte scale potential. It has granular API access. It is Amazon DynamoDB. 

Head to head. Each database class is engineered to exactly enhance exciting existential environments you envision. Which database will ultimately be victorious in this new world knock out night fight? Once again, the winner will depend on your use case. 

Round one, Relational databases have been around since the moment businesses started using computers. Being able to build complex analysis of data spread across multiple tables, is the strength of any relational system. In this round, you have a sales supply chain management system that you have to analyze for weak spots. Using RDS is the clear winner here because it's built for business analytics, because you need complex relational joins. Round one easily goes to RDS. 

Round two, the use case, pretty much anything else. Now that sounds weird, but despite what your standalone legacy database vendor would have you believe, most of what people use expensive relational databases for, has nothing to do with complex relationships. In fact, a lot of what people put into these databases ends up just being look-up tables. 

For this round, imagine you have an employee contact list: names, phone numbers, emails, employee IDs. Well, this is all single table territory. I could use a relational database for this, but the things that make relational databases great, all of that complex functionality, creates overhead and lag and expense if you're not actually using it. This is where non-relational databases, Dynamo DB, delivers the knockout punch. By eliminating all the overhead, DynamoDB allows you to build powerful, incredibly fast databases where you don't need complex joint functionality. DynamoDB comes out the undisputed champion. 

Once again, the winner depends on your individual workload. Each service is the right service for specific needs. And once you understand what you need, you will know again, which service is your champion.


Amazon RDS
- Automatic high availability; recovery provided
-Customer owernship of data
- Customer ownership of schema
- Customer control of network


Amazon DynamoDB
- Key Value; able to operate global
- Massive throughput capabilities
-PB size potential
-Granlar API access


Knowledge Check

What are the scenarios in which you should use Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)? (Select TWO.)
The two correct response options are:
Using SQL to organize data
Storing data in an Amazon Aurora database

The other three response options are scenarios in which you should use Amazon DynamoDB.
Running a serverless database, storing data in a key-value databse, Scaling up to 10 trillion requests per day
