Module 5 quiz
Test your knowledge of some of the key concepts from this module by answering the questions in this quiz.

After answering each question, review the detailed answer explanations and external links to reinforce your understanding of the concepts.

1) Which Amazon S3 storage classes are optimized for archival data? (Select TWO.)
The correct two response options are:
S3 Glacier
S3 Glacier Deep Archive
Objects stored in the S3 Glacier storage class can be retrieved within a few minutes to a few hours. By comparison, objects that are stored in the S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage class can be retrieved within 12 hours.
 
 2) Which statement or statements are TRUE about Amazon EBS volumes and Amazon EFS file systems?
 The correct response option is: EBS volumes store data within a single Availability Zone. Amazon EFS file systems store data across multiple Availability Zones.
  
 An EBS volume must be located in the same Availability Zone as the Amazon EC2 instance to which it is attached.
  
 Data in an Amazon EFS file system can be accessed concurrently from all the Availability Zones in the Region where the file system is located.

 Learn more:
 Amazon EBS volumes
 https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ebs-volumes.html
 
 Amazon EFS: How it works
 https://docs.aws.amazon.com/efs/latest/ug/how-it-works.html
 
 3) You want to store data in an object storage service. Which AWS service is best for this type of storage?
 The correct response option is Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3).
  
 The other response options are incorrect because:
 Amazon Managed Blockchain is a service that you can use to create and manage blockchain networks with open-source frameworks. Blockchain is a distributed ledger system that lets multiple parties run transactions and share data without a central authority.
 Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) is a scalable file system used with AWS Cloud services and on-premises resources. It does not store data as object storage.
 Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) is a service that provides block-level storage volumes that you can use with Amazon EC2 instances.
 
 Learn more:
 Amazon S3
 https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
 
 What is cloud object storage?
 https://aws.amazon.com/what-is-cloud-object-storage/
 
 4) Which statement best describes Amazon DynamoDB?
 The correct response option is A serverless key-value database service.
  
 Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value database service. It is serverless, which means that you do not have to provision, patch, or manage servers.
  
 The other response options are incorrect because:
 A service that enables you to run relational databases in the AWS Cloud describes Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS).
 A service that you can use to migrate relational databases, nonrelational databases, and other types of data stores describes AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS).
 An enterprise-class relational database describes Amazon Aurora.
 
 Learn more:
 Amazon DynamoDB
 https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/


5) Which service is used to query and analyze data across a data warehouse?
The correct response option is Amazon Redshift.
 
Amazon Redshift is a data warehousing service that you can use for big data analytics. Use Amazon Redshift to collect data from many sources and help you understand relationships and trends across your data.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
Amazon Neptune is a graph database service. You can use Amazon Neptune to build and run applications that work with highly connected datasets, such as recommendation engines, fraud detection, and knowledge graphs.
Amazon DocumentDB is a document database service that supports MongoDB workloads.
Amazon ElastiCache is a service that adds caching layers on top of your databases to help improve the read times of common requests.

Learn more:
Amazon Redshift
https://aws.amazon.com/redshift/
