Shared responsibility model


When it comes to securing your business on AWS, it's important to ask the question: Who is ultimately responsible for the security? Is it A: You, the customer? or B: AWS? And the correct answer is: yes. Both. Both are ultimately responsible for making sure that you are secure. 

Now, if there's any security experts watching this right now you're probably shaking your head saying you can't have two different entities with the ultimate responsibility over a single object. That's not security, that's wishful thinking. At AWS, we agree completely. But for us, we don't look at your environment as a single object. Instead we see it as a collection of parts that build on each other. AWS is responsible for the security of some of the objects. Responsible 100% for those. The others, you are responsible 100% for their security. This is what's known as the shared responsibility model. 

It's no different than securing a house. The builder constructed the house with four walls and a door. It's their responsibility to make sure the walls are strong and the doors are solid. It's your responsibility, the homeowner, to close and lock the doors. 

It really is that simple on AWS as well. Take EC2, for instance. EC2 lives in a physical building, a data center that must be secured. It has a network and a hypervisor that supports your instances and their individual operating systems. On top of that operating system, you have your application, and that supports your data. So for EC2 and every service AWS offers, there's a similar stack of parts that build on top of each other. AWS is 100% responsible for some, you are responsible for the others. 

So, starting with the physical layer. This is iron and concrete and fences and security guards. Someone has to own the concrete. Someone has to staff the physical perimeter, 24/7. This is AWS. On top of the physical layer we have our network and our hypervisor. Now, I'm not gonna go into details on how this is all secured, but basically we have reinvented those technologies to make them faster, stronger, tamper-proof. 

But you don't have to just take our word for it. We have numerous third party auditors who have gone through the code and the way we build our infrastructure, and can provide the right documentation you need for your security compliance structures. Now, on top of all that, on EC2, you now get to pick what operating system you want to run. 

This is the magic dividing line that separates our responsibility. AWS' responsibility and your responsibility. This is your operating system. You're 100% in charge of this. AWS does not have any backdoor into your system here. You and you alone have the only encryption key to log onto the root of this OS or to create any user accounts there. I mean, no more than a construction company would keep copies of your front door key, AWS cannot enter your operating system. And here's a hint. If someone from AWS calls and asks you for your OS key, it is not AWS. 

Now that means your operations team is 100% responsible for keeping the operating system patched. If AWS discovers there are some new vulnerabilities in your version of Windows, let's say, we can certainly notify your account owner but we cannot deploy a patch. This is a really good thing for your security. This means no one can deploy anything that might break your system without your team being the ones that do it. Now, on top of that OS, you can run whatever applications you want. You own them. You maintain them. 

Which takes us to the most important part of the stack, your data. Data. This is always your domain to control. And sometimes you might want to have your data open for everyone to see, like pictures on a retail website. Other times like banking or healthcare, yeah, not so much, not so much. AWS provides everyone with the tool set they need for their data to open it up to some authorized individuals, to everyone, to just a single person under specific conditions, or even lock it down so no one can access it. Plus, the ability to have ubiquitous encryption. That way even if you accidentally left your front door open, all anyone would see is unreadable encrypted content. 

The AWS shared responsibility model is about making sure both sides understand exactly what tasks are ours. Basically, AWS is responsible for the security of the cloud and you are responsible for the security in the cloud. Together, you have an environment you can trust.


AWS Responsible for security "of" the cloud
- Hypervisor
- Network
- Physical

Customer Responsible for securoty "in" the cloud
- Data
- Application
- Operating System


The AWS shared responsibility model
https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/

Throughout this course, you have learned about a variety of resources that you can create in the AWS Cloud. These resources include Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon S3 buckets, and Amazon RDS databases. Who is responsible for keeping these resources secure: you (the customer) or AWS?

The answer is both. The reason is that you do not treat your AWS environment as a single object. Rather, you treat the environment as a collection of parts that build upon each other. AWS is responsible for some parts of your environment and you (the customer) are responsible for other parts. This concept is known as the shared responsibility model.

The shared responsibility model divides into customer responsibilities (commonly referred to as “security in the cloud”) and AWS responsibilities (commonly referred to as “security of the cloud”).

Illustration of the AWS shared responsibility model

Customers
Customer Data
Platform, Applications, Identity and Access Management
Operating Systems, Network and Firewall Configuration
Client-Side Data Encryption | Server-side encryption  | Networking Traffic Protection

AWS
Software
Compute | Storage | Database | Networking 
Hardware/AWS Global Infrastructure
Regions | Availability Zones | Edge Locations

You can think of this model as being similar to the division of responsibilities between a homeowner and a homebuilder. The builder (AWS) is responsible for constructing your house and ensuring that it is solidly built. As the homeowner (the customer), it is your responsibility to secure everything in the house by ensuring that the doors are closed and locked. 

To learn more, select the + symbol next to each category.


Customers: Security in the cloud
Customers are responsible for the security of everything that they create and put in the AWS Cloud.

When using AWS services, you, the customer, maintain complete control over your content. You are responsible for managing security requirements for your content, including which content you choose to store on AWS, which AWS services you use, and who has access to that content. You also control how access rights are granted, managed, and revoked.
 
The security steps that you take will depend on factors such as the services that you use, the complexity of your systems, and your company’s specific operational and security needs. Steps include selecting, configuring, and patching the operating systems that will run on Amazon EC2 instances, configuring security groups, and managing user accounts. 

AWS: Security of the cloud
AWS is responsible for security of the cloud.
 
AWS operates, manages, and controls the components at all layers of infrastructure. This includes areas such as the host operating system, the virtualization layer, and even the physical security of the data centers from which services operate. 
 
AWS is responsible for protecting the global infrastructure that runs all of the services offered in the AWS Cloud. This infrastructure includes AWS Regions, Availability Zones, and edge locations.
 
AWS manages the security of the cloud, specifically the physical infrastructure that hosts your resources, which include:
- Physical security of data centers
- Hardware and software infrastructure
- Network infrastructure
- Virtualization infrastructure

Although you cannot visit AWS data centers to see this protection firsthand, AWS provides several reports from third-party auditors. These auditors have verified its compliance with a variety of computer security standards and regulations.


Which tasks are the responsibilities of customers? (Select TWO.)
The correct two response options are:
- Patching software on Amazon EC2 instances
- Setting permissions for Amazon S3 objects
The other three response options are tasks that are the responsibility of AWS.

Learn more:
AWS shared responsibility model
https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/
