User permissions and access

In the coffee shop, every employee has an identity. They come into work in the morning and they'd log into the system to clock in, use the registers and manage the systems, running the coffee shop, day to day. We have the cash registers, the computers helping run the whole operation. Each person has unique access to these systems based on who they are. 

If I have Rudy at the register taking orders and Blaine in the back, checking on the inventory levels on the computer, they have two different logins and two different sets of permissions. Rudy can run the cash register, but if he went to log into the inventory system, he wouldn't be allowed to do that. 

You will want to scope your users permissions in AWS in a similar way. When you create an AWS account, you are given what is called the root account user. This root user is the owner of the AWS account and has permission to do anything they want inside of that account. This is like being the owner of the coffee shop. 

In this situation, let's say I am the owner of the coffee shop. I can come into the shop, use my credentials to work the register, work the inventory system or any other system in the coffee shop. I cannot be restricted. With the AWS root user, you can access and control any resource in the account. You can spin up databases, EC2 instances, blockchain services, or literally whatever you want. Because that user is so powerful, we recommend that as soon as you create an AWS account and log in with your root user, you turn on multi-factor authentication, or MFA, to ensure that you need not only the email and password, but also a randomized token to log in. 

That is great. But even with MFA turned on, in reality you don't want to use the root user for everything. I, as the coffee shop owner, don't give my level of access to all employees. Rudy on the cash register cannot access the inventory system, remember? You control access in a granular way by using the AWS service, AWS Identity and Access Management, or IAM. 

In IAM, you can create IAM users. When you create an IAM user, by default, it has no permissions. The user can't even log into the AWS account at first, it has absolutely zero permissions. It can not launch an EC2 instance. It can not create an S3 bucket. Nothing. You have to explicitly give the user permission to do anything in that account. Remember, by default, all actions are denied. You have to explicitly allow any action done by any user. You give people access only to what they need and nothing else. This idea is called the least privilege principle. 

The way that you grant or deny permission is to associate what is called an IAM policy to an IAM user. An IAM policy is a JSON document that describes what API calls a user can or cannot make. Let's look at this quick example. In this example, you can see we have a permission statement that has the effect as Allow, the action as s3:ListBucket. And the resource is a unique ID for an S3 bucket. So if I attach this policy to a user and that user could view the bucket "coffee_shop_reports" but perform no other action in this account. There were only two potential options for the effect on any policy. Either allow or deny. For action, you can list any AWS API call and for resource, you would list what AWS resource that specific API call is for. Now, as a business person, you wouldn't need to write these policies, but they are used all over in your AWS accounts. 

One way to make it easier to manage your users and their permissions is to organize them into IAM groups. Groups are, well, they are groupings of users. You can attach a policy to a group and all of the users in that group will have those permissions. If you have a bunch of cashiers in the coffee shop, instead of individually granting them all access to the register. Instead, you can grant all cashiers access then just add each individual cashier to the group. Same idea with groups in IAM. 

All right, so far with IAM, you have the root user, they can do anything. You have users which can be organized into groups. And you also have policies which are documents that describe permissions that you can then attach to users or groups. There is one other major identity in IAM, and it's called a role. 

To understand the idea of roles, let's think about the coffee shop. As we know, Blaine works in the shop and depending on the staffing of the shop day to day, he might work the register or the inventory system or he might be the one cleaning up at the end of the day with access to no systems. I, as the owner, have the authority to assign these different roles to Blaine. His responsibilities and access are variable and change from day to day. Just because he worked on tracking inventory in the system yesterday, doesn't mean that he should be at any time. His role at work changes and is temporary in nature. The same type of idea exists in AWS. You can create identities in AWS that are called roles. 

Roles have associated permissions that allow or deny specific actions. And these roles can be assumed for temporary amounts of time. It is similar to a user, but has no username and password. Instead, it is an identity that you can assume to gain access to temporary permissions. You use roles to temporarily grant access to AWS resources, to users, external identities, applications, and even other AWS services. When an identity assumes a role, it abandons all of the previous permissions that it has and it assumes the permissions of that role.
You can actually avoid creating IAM users for every person in your organization by federating users into your account. This means that they could use their regular corporate credentials to log into AWS by mapping their corporate identities to IAM roles. AWS IAM authentication and authorization as a service.



AWS IAM
-Root Users
-Users
-Groups
-Policies
-Roles

AWS IAM roles
-Associated permissions
-Allow or deny
-Assumed for temporary amounts of time
-No username or password
-Access to temporary permissons
-AWS resources
-Users
-External identities
-Application
-Other AWS services


AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
https://aws.amazon.com/iam/

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) enables you to manage access to AWS services and resources securely.   

IAM gives you the flexibility to configure access based on your company’s specific operational and security needs. You do this by using a combination of IAM features, which are explored in detail in this lesson:

IAM users, groups, and roles
IAM policies
Multi-factor authentication
You will also learn best practices for each of these features.


AWS account root user
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_root-user.html

When you first create an AWS account, you begin with an identity known as the root user. 

The root user is accessed by signing in with the email address and password that you used to create your AWS account. You can think of the root user as being similar to the owner of the coffee shop. It has complete access to all the AWS services and resources in the account.


Process diagram of creating and using the AWS account root user
1) Create an AWS account. This establishes your root user identity.
2) Create your first IAM user and give it permissions to create other users
3a) Log in as the new IAM user and continue to create otehr users. 
3b) Only access the root user for the limited number of tasks

Best practice:

Do not use the root user for everyday tasks. 

Instead, use the root user to create your first IAM user and assign it permissions to create other users.

Then, continue to create other IAM users, and access those identities for performing regular tasks throughout AWS. Only use the root user when you need to perform a limited number of tasks that are only available to the root user. Examples of these tasks include changing your root user email address and changing your AWS support plan.


IAM users
An IAM user is an identity that you create in AWS. It represents the person or application that interacts with AWS services and resources. It consists of a name and credentials.

By default, when you create a new IAM user in AWS, it has no permissions associated with it. To allow the IAM user to perform specific actions in AWS, such as launching an Amazon EC2 instance or creating an Amazon S3 bucket, you must grant the IAM user the necessary permissions.

Best practice:

We recommend that you create individual IAM users for each person who needs to access AWS.  

Even if you have multiple employees who require the same level of access, you should create individual IAM users for each of them. This provides additional security by allowing each IAM user to have a unique set of security credentials.


IAM policies
An IAM policy is a document that allows or denies permissions to AWS services and resources.  

IAM policies enable you to customize users’ levels of access to resources. For example, you can allow users to access all of the Amazon S3 buckets within your AWS account, or only a specific bucket.

Best practice:

Follow the security principle of least privilege when granting permissions. 

By following this principle, you help to prevent users or roles from having more permissions than needed to perform their tasks. 

For example, if an employee needs access to only a specific bucket, specify the bucket in the IAM policy. Do this instead of granting the employee access to all of the buckets in your AWS account.


Example: IAM policy
Here’s an example of how IAM policies work. Suppose that the coffee shop owner has to create an IAM user for a newly hired cashier. The cashier needs access to the receipts kept in an Amazon S3 bucket with the ID: AWSDOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET.
Example of an IAM policy
This example IAM policy allows permission to access the objects in the Amazon S3 bucket with ID: AWSDOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET.
In this example, the IAM policy is allowing a specific action within Amazon S3: ListObject. The policy also mentions a specific bucket ID: AWSDOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET. When the owner attaches this policy to the cashier’s IAM user, it will allow the cashier to view all of the objects in the AWSDOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET bucket. 

If the owner wants the cashier to be able to access other services and perform other actions in AWS, the owner must attach additional policies to specify these services and actions.
Now, suppose that the coffee shop has hired a few more cashiers. Instead of assigning permissions to each individual IAM user, the owner places the users into an IAM group.


IAM groups
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_groups.html

An IAM group is a collection of IAM users. When you assign an IAM policy to a group, all users in the group are granted permissions specified by the policy.

Here’s an example of how this might work in the coffee shop. Instead of assigning permissions to cashiers one at a time, the owner can create a “Cashiers” IAM group. The owner can then add IAM users to the group and then attach permissions at the group level. 
Example of three IAM users that have been added into the "Cashiers" IAM group
Assigning IAM policies at the group level also makes it easier to adjust permissions when an employee transfers to a different job. For example, if a cashier becomes an inventory specialist, the coffee shop owner removes them from the “Cashiers” IAM group and adds them into the “Inventory Specialists” IAM group. This ensures that employees have only the permissions that are required for their current role.

What if a coffee shop employee hasn’t switched jobs permanently, but instead, rotates to different workstations throughout the day? This employee can get the access they need through IAM roles.

IAM roles
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html

In the coffee shop, an employee rotates to different workstations throughout the day. Depending on the staffing of the coffee shop, this employee might perform several duties: work at the cash register, update the inventory system, process online orders, and so on. 

When the employee needs to switch to a different task, they give up their access to one workstation and gain access to the next workstation. The employee can easily switch between workstations, but at any given point in time, they can have access to only a single workstation. This same concept exists in AWS with IAM roles.

An IAM role is an identity that you can assume to gain temporary access to permissions.  

Before an IAM user, application, or service can assume an IAM role, they must be granted permissions to switch to the role. When someone assumes an IAM role, they abandon all previous permissions that they had under a previous role and assume the permissions of the new role. 
Best practice:

IAM roles are ideal for situations in which access to services or resources needs to be granted temporarily, instead of long-term.  


Example: IAM roles
To review an example of how IAM roles could be used in the coffee shop, select Start. 

First, the owner grants the employee permissions to switch to a role for each workstation in the coffee shop.

The employee begins their day by assuming the “Cashier” role. This grants them access to the cash register system.

Later in the day, the employee needs to update the inventory system. They assume the “Inventory” role. 

This grants the employee access to the inventory system and also revokes their access to the cash register system.



Multi-factor authentication
https://aws.amazon.com/iam/features/mfa/

Have you ever signed in to a website that required you to provide multiple pieces of information to verify your identity? You might have needed to provide your password and then a second form of authentication, such as a random code sent to your phone. This is an example of multi-factor authentication.

In IAM, multi-factor authentication (MFA) provides an extra layer of security for your AWS account.

How multi-factor authentication works
To review the steps involved with multi-factor authentication, select Start.

First, when a user signs in to an AWS website, they enter their IAM user ID and password.
Next, the user is prompted for an authentication response from their AWS MFA device. This device could be a hardware security key, a hardware device, or an MFA application on a device such as a smartphone.

When the user has been successfully authenticated, they are able to access the requested AWS services or resources.

You can enable MFA for the root user and IAM users. As a best practice, enable MFA for the root user and all IAM users in your account. By doing this, you can keep your AWS account safe from unauthorized access.


