Additional security services

With all the comings and goings on in your coffee shop, you'll want to increase security to your coffee beans, equipment, and even money in the till. For your beans, this could be when they're sitting in your store room, or even when you're transporting them between shops. After all, we don't want unwanted visitors with access to our coffee beans, or even running off with precious equipment. 

To start off, let's chat about how you can secure your coffee beans, or your data whether it's at rest, or in transit. For our beans, the simple way to do it would be to lock the door when we'd leave at night. That's the notion of encryption, which is securing a message or data in a way that can only be accessed by authorized parties. Non-authorized parties are therefore less likely to be able to access the message. Or not able to access it at all. Think of it as that key and door example. If you have the key, you can unlock the door. But if you don't, then you cannot unlock that door. 

At AWS, this comes in two variations. Encryption at rest and encryption in transit. By at rest, we mean when your data is idle. It's just being stored and not moving. For example, server-side encryption at rest is enabled on all DynamoDB table data. And that helps prevent unauthorized access. DynamoDB's encryption at rest also integrates with AWS KMS, or Key Management Service, for managing the encryption key that is used to encrypt your tables. That's the key for your door, remember? And without it, you won't be able to access your data. So make sure to keep it safe. 

Similarly, in-transit means that the data is traveling between, say A and B. Where A is the AWS service, and B could be a client accessing the service. Or even another AWS service itself. For example, let's say we have a Redshift instance running. And we want to connect it with a SQL client. We use secure sockets layer, or SSL connections to encrypt data, and we can use service certificates to validate, and authorize a client. This means that data is protected when passing between Redshift, and our client. And this functionality exists in numerous other AWS services such as SQS, S3, RDS, and many more. 

But speaking of other services, the next service we want to highlight is called Amazon Inspector. Inspector helps to improve security, and compliance of your AWS deployed applications by running an automated security assessment against your infrastructure. Specifically, it helps to check on deviations of security best practices, exposure of EC2 instances, vulnerabilities, and so forth. The service consists of three parts a network configuration reachability piece, an Amazon agent, which can be installed an EC2 instances, and a security assessment service that brings them all together. To use it, you configure Inspector options, run the service, out pops a list of potential security issues. The resulting findings are displayed in the Amazon Inspector console, and they are presented with a detailed description of the security issue, and a recommendation on how to fix it. Additionally, you can retrieve findings through an API. So as to go towards the best practice of performing remediation to fix issues. 

Another service dimension is our threat detection offering known as Amazon GuardDuty. It analyzes continuous streams of metadata generated from your account, and network activity found on AWS CloudTrail events, Amazon VPC Flow Logs, and DNS logs. It uses integrated threat intelligence such as known malicious IP addresses, anomaly detection, and machine learning to identify threats more accurately. The best part is that it runs independently from your other AWS services. So it won't affect performance or availability of your existing infrastructure, and workloads. 

They are so many other security services like Advanced Shield and Security Hub. So please check out the Resources section to learn more. Thanks for following along.


AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS)
https://aws.amazon.com/kms/

The coffee shop has many items, such as coffee machines, pastries, money in the cash registers, and so on. You can think of these items as data. The coffee shop owners want to ensure that all of these items are secure, whether they’re sitting in the storage room or being transported between shop locations. 

In the same way, you must ensure that your applications’ data is secure while in storage (encryption at rest) and while it is transmitted, known as encryption in transit.

AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) enables you to perform encryption operations through the use of cryptographic keys. A cryptographic key is a random string of digits used for locking (encrypting) and unlocking (decrypting) data. You can use AWS KMS to create, manage, and use cryptographic keys. You can also control the use of keys across a wide range of services and in your applications.

With AWS KMS, you can choose the specific levels of access control that you need for your keys. For example, you can specify which IAM users and roles are able to manage keys. Alternatively, you can temporarily disable keys so that they are no longer in use by anyone. Your keys never leave AWS KMS, and you are always in control of them.


AWS WAF
https://aws.amazon.com/waf/

AWS WAF is a web application firewall that lets you monitor network requests that come into your web applications. 
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/web-acl.html

AWS WAF works together with Amazon CloudFront and an Application Load Balancer. Recall the network access control lists that you learned about in an earlier module. AWS WAF works in a similar way to block or allow traffic. However, it does this by using a web access control list (ACL) to protect your AWS resources. 

Here’s an example of how you can use AWS WAF to allow and block specific requests.

Suppose that your application has been receiving malicious network requests from several IP addresses. You want to prevent these requests from continuing to access your application, but you also want to ensure that legitimate users can still access it. You configure the web ACL to allow all requests except those from the IP addresses that you have specified.

When a request comes into AWS WAF, it checks against the list of rules that you have configured in the web ACL. If a request did not come from one of the blocked IP addresses, it allows access to the application.

However, if a request came from one of the blocked IP addresses that you have specified in the web ACL, it is denied access.


Request from a customer
Packet: I'd like to access the application. 
AWS WAF: You are coming from an IP address that has not been blocked. You may enter!


Malicious requestion from a hacker
Packet: I'd like to acess the application.
AWS WAF: You are coming from an IP address taht has been blocked. You cannot enter 



Amazon Inspector
https://aws.amazon.com/inspector/

Suppose that the developers at the coffee shop are developing and testing a new ordering application. They want to make sure that they are designing the application in accordance with security best practices. However, they have several other applications to develop, so they cannot spend much time conducting manual assessments. To perform automated security assessments, they decide to use Amazon Inspector.

Amazon Inspector helps to improve the security and compliance of applications by running automated security assessments. It checks applications for security vulnerabilities and deviations from security best practices, such as open access to Amazon EC2 instances and installations of vulnerable software versions. 

After Amazon Inspector has performed an assessment, it provides you with a list of security findings. The list prioritizes by severity level, including a detailed description of each security issue and a recommendation for how to fix it. However, AWS does not guarantee that following the provided recommendations resolves every potential security issue. Under the shared responsibility model, customers are responsible for the security of their applications, processes, and tools that run on AWS services.


Amazon GuardDuty
https://aws.amazon.com/guardduty/

Amazon GuardDuty is a service that provides intelligent threat detection for your AWS infrastructure and resources. It identifies threats by continuously monitoring the network activity and account behavior within your AWS environment.

Process diagram of the steps for using Amazon GuardDuty
Enable Amazon GuardDuty > GuardDuty continuously analyzes network and account activity. > GuardDuty intelligently detects threats > Review detailed findings and take action

After you have enabled GuardDuty for your AWS account, GuardDuty begins monitoring your network and account activity. You do not have to deploy or manage any additional security software. GuardDuty then continuously analyzes data from multiple AWS sources, including VPC Flow Logs and DNS logs. 

If GuardDuty detects any threats, you can review detailed findings about them from the AWS Management Console. Findings include recommended steps for remediation. You can also configure AWS Lambda functions to take remediation steps automatically in response to GuardDuty’s security findings.
