Module 6 summary

In Module 6, you learned about the following concepts:

- The shared responsibility model
- Features of AWS Identity and Access Management
- Methods of managing multiple accounts in AWS Organizations
- AWS compliance resources
- AWS services for application security and encryption


Alright, it's time to break down what we just covered. First things first, AWS follows a shared responsibility model. AWS is responsible for security of the cloud, and you are responsible for security in the cloud. 

With IAM, you have users, groups, roles, and policies. Users log in with a username and password and by default they have no permissions. Groups are groupings of users and roles are identities that you can assume to gain access to temporary credentials and permissions for a configurable amount of time. In order to give permissions to an identity, you need to create policies that either explicitly allow or deny a specific action in AWS. With IAM also comes identity federation. If you have an existing corporate identity store, you can federate those users to AWS, using role based access, which allows your users to use one login for both your corporate systems as well as AWS. One final point to remember about IAM is that you should make sure that you turn on multi-factor authentication for users, but especially for your root user which has all the permissions by default and cannot be restricted. 

Next up, we discussed AWS Organizations. With AWS, it's likely you'll have multiple accounts. Accounts are commonly used to isolate workloads, environments, teams, or applications. AWS Organizations helps you manage multiple accounts in a hierarchical fashion. We then discussed compliance. AWS uses third-party auditors to prove its adherence to a wide variety of compliance programs. You can use the AWS Compliance Center to find more information on compliance and AWS Artifact to gain access to compliance documents. The compliance requirements you have will vary from application to application and between areas of operation. 

Then we talked about distributed denial-of-service attacks, or DDoS attacks, and how to combat them with AWS using tools like ELB, security groups, AWS Shield, and AWS WAF. 
We also talked about encryption. In AWS, you are the owner of your data, and you are responsible for security. That means you need to pay attention to encryption, in transit and at rest. 

There are lots of considerations when dealing with security in AWS. Security is AWS's top priority, and will continue to be so. Please make sure you read the documentation on securing your AWS resources, as it does vary from service to service. Use the least privilege principle when scoping permissions for users and roles in IAM, encrypt your data at every layer, both in transit and at rest. And make sure you use AWS services to protect your environment.


Additional resources
To learn more about the concepts that were explored in Module 6, review these resources.

Security, Identity, and Compliance on AWS
https://aws.amazon.com/products/security/

Whitepaper: Introduction to AWS Security
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/introduction-aws-security/welcome.html

Whitepaper: Amazon Web Services - Overview of Security Processes
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-overview-security-processes/aws-overview-security-processes.pdf

AWS Security Blog
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/

AWS Compliance
https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/

AWS Customer Stories: Security, Identity, and Compliance
https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/?customer-references-cards.sort-by=item.additionalFields.publishedDate&customer-references-cards.sort-order=desc&awsf.customer-references-location=*all&awsf.customer-references-segment=*all&awsf.customer-references-product=product%23vpc%7Cproduct%23api-gateway%7Cproduct%23cloudfront%7Cproduct%23route53%7Cproduct%23directconnect%7Cproduct%23elb&awsf.customer-references-category=category%23security-identity-compliance
