Module 7 quiz
Test your knowledge of some of the key concepts from this module by answering the questions in this quiz.

After answering each question, review the detailed answer explanations and external links to reinforce your understanding of the concepts.

1) Which actions can you perform using Amazon CloudWatch? (Select TWO.)
The two correct response options are:
- Monitor your resources’ utilization and performance
- Access metrics from a single dashboard

The other response options are incorrect because:
Receiving real-time recommendations for improving your AWS environment can be performed by AWS Trusted Advisor.
Comparing your infrastructure to AWS best practices in five categories can be performed by AWS Trusted Advisor.
Automatically detecting unusual account activity can be performed by AWS CloudTrail.
Learn more:
Amazon CloudWatch
https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/

2) Which service enables you to review the security of your Amazon S3 buckets by checking for open access permissions?
The correct response option is AWS Trusted Advisor.
 
AWS Trusted Advisor is a web service that inspects your AWS environment and provides real-time recommendations in accordance with AWS best practices. The inspection includes security checks, such as Amazon S3 buckets with open access permissions.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
Amazon CloudWatch is a web service that enables you to monitor and manage various metrics for the resources that run your applications.
AWS CloudTrail is a web service that enables you to review details for user activities and API calls that have occurred within your AWS environment.
Amazon GuardDuty is a service that provides intelligent threat detection for your AWS environment and resources. It identifies threats by continuously monitoring the network activity and account behavior within your AWS environment.
Learn more:
AWS Trusted Advisor
https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/technology/trusted-advisor/

3) Which categories are included in the AWS Trusted Advisor dashboard? (Select TWO.)
The two correct response options are:
- Performance
- Fault tolerance
AWS Trusted Advisor continuously inspects your AWS environment and provides best practice recommendations across five categories: cost optimization, performance, security, fault tolerance, and service limits.

Learn more:
AWS Trusted Advisor

4)
