Billing dashboard

Hey there, AWS aficionados. Are you like me and curious about billing information of your AWS account? Well, let's walk through a demo so you know where to go. 

As you can see, I'm already logged in and now we're gonna search for billing and click the option that shows up. And boom, with that, you already have some useful information. You can see your month-to-date spend on the right-hand side with the top services being used. Below on the left is the last month, current and forecasted amounts. Below that is the top Free Tier services by usage. You even get the percentages of your month-to-date usage. Nifty, right? 

If we scroll up, you can see you have access to other billing tools, such as Cost Explorer, Budgets, along with a few others. You also get access to your bill itself. So let's click Bills. Now, you can see we have the services that we are paying for, and if we expand them, we get to see the costs broken down by region. And for global services, we see them broken down as such. For example, if I click Route 53, you can see it's a global service and is broken down that way. 
And there you have it, a simple way to check out what you're spending on each service in AWS. Thanks for joining us.




Use the AWS Billing & Cost Management dashboard to pay your AWS bill, monitor your usage, and analyze and control your costs.
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/billing-what-is.html

Compare your current month-to-date balance with the previous month, and get a forecast of the next month based on current usage.
- View month-to-date spend by service.
- View Free Tier usage by service.
- Access Cost Explorer and create budgets.
- Purchase and manage Savings Plans.
- Publish AWS Cost and Usage Reports. 
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cur/latest/userguide/what-is-cur.html
