AWS Support plans

One of the great things about AWS is no matter how big or small your business is, you're never alone. From small startups to large enterprises, private sector, and public, all businesses have support options available that are designed to fit your specific needs. 

To begin with, every customer automatically gets AWS Basic support, no cost at all. Any customer can access support functions like 24/7 access to customer service, documentation, whitepapers, support forums, AWS Trusted Advisor, and the AWS Personal Health Dashboard. It's a personalized view of the health of AWS services and any alerts when your resources might be impacted. These functions are free for everyone, but as you begin to move mission critical workloads into AWS, we offer higher levels of support to match your levels of need. 

The next tier is our Developer tier, which includes everything in the Basic support level. Plus, you can now email customer support directly with a 24 hour response time on any questions you have. And responses of less than 12 hours in case your systems are impaired. This is a great tier for businesses that are experimenting with AWS or setting up tests or proofs of concept. 

Now, as you begin to take production workloads live, we find customers are more successful advancing to the Business tier. Everything in the previous tiers, plus Trusted Advisor now opens up the entire suite of checks for your account. You are given direct phone access to our support team that has a four hour response SLA. If your production system is impaired, and a one hour SLA for production systems down. Additionally, as part of the Business tier, we provide access to infrastructure event management, where for an extra fee, we can help you plan for massive events like brand new launches or global advertising blitzes. 

Finally, for companies running mission critical workloads, we recommend the Enterprise level support. It has everything in the previous tiers. Plus a 15 minute SLA for business critical workloads, a dedicated technical account manager for TAM. They will coordinate access to programs and other AWS experts as needed. 

Let's talk a bit more specifically about the job of a TAM. TAMs are part of the concierge support team that comes with Enterprise level support. They specialize not only in proactively monitoring your environment and assisting with optimizations, but provide infrastructure event management, Well-Architected reviews, and operations reviews. 

What's a Well-Architected review, You ask? Well, keeping it simple, TAMs work with customers to review architectures using the Well-Architected Framework. Architectures are checked against the five pillars of the Well-Architected Framework: Operational Excellence, Security, Reliability, Performance Efficiency, and Cost Optimization. As you can see, the job of a TAM is much more than just handling trouble tickets. AWS Support looks at the customer holistically, not just if they have problems, but how can we help them be successful? 

And that's the mission of AWS Support. To learn more about AWS Support, including pricing structures for the plans, go to aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport.



AWS Supporthttps://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/plans/

AWS offers four different Support plans to help you troubleshoot issues, lower costs, and efficiently use AWS services. 

You can choose from the following Support plans to meet your company’s needs: 
- Basic
- Developer
- Business
- Enterprise


Basic Support
Basic Support is free for all AWS customers. It includes access to whitepapers, documentation, and support communities. With Basic Support, you can also contact AWS for billing questions and service limit increases.

With Basic Support, you have access to a limited selection of AWS Trusted Advisor checks. Additionally, you can use the AWS Personal Health Dashboard, a tool that provides alerts and remediation guidance when AWS is experiencing events that may affect you. 

If your company needs support beyond the Basic level, you could consider purchasing Developer, Business, or Enterprise Support.


Developer, Business, and Enterprise Support
The Developer, Business, and Enterprise Support plans include all the benefits of Basic Support, in addition to the ability to open an unrestricted number of technical support cases. These three Support plans have pay-by-the-month pricing and require no long-term contracts.

The information in this course highlights only a selection of details for each Support plan. A complete overview of what is included in each Support plan, including pricing for each plan, is available on the AWS Support site.

In general, for pricing, the Developer plan has the lowest cost, the Business plan is in the middle, and the Enterprise plan has the highest cost. 

To learn more, select the + symbol next to each category.


Developer Support

Customers in the Developer Support plan have access to features such as:
- Best practice guidance
- Client-side diagnostic tools
- Building-block architecture support, which consists of guidance for how to use AWS offerings, features, and services together

For example, suppose that your company is exploring AWS services. You’ve heard about a few different AWS services. However, you’re unsure of how to potentially use them together to build applications that can address your company’s needs. In this scenario, the building-block architecture support that is included with the Developer Support plan could help you to identify opportunities for combining specific services and features.


Business Support

Customers with a Business Support plan have access to additional features, including: 
- Use-case guidance to identify AWS offerings, features, and services that can best support your specific needs
- All AWS Trusted Advisor checks
- Limited support for third-party software, such as common operating systems and application stack components

Suppose that your company has the Business Support plan and wants to install a common third-party operating system onto your Amazon EC2 instances. You could contact AWS Support for assistance with installing, configuring, and troubleshooting the operating system. For advanced topics such as optimizing performance, using custom scripts, or resolving security issues, you may need to contact the third-party software provider directly.

Enterprise Support 
In addition to all the features included in the Basic, Developer, and Business Support plans, customers with an Enterprise Support plan have access to features such as:
- Application architecture guidance, which is a consultative relationship to support your company’s specific use cases and applications
- Infrastructure event management: A short-term engagement with AWS Support that helps your company gain a better understanding of your use cases. This also provides your company with architectural and scaling guidance.
- A Technical Account Manager





Knowledge check
Which Support plan includes all AWS Trusted Advisor checks at the lowest cost?
The correct response option is Business.
 
Only the Business and Enterprise Support plans include all AWS Trusted Advisor checks. Of these two Support plans, the Business Support plan has a lower cost.

Learn more:
Compare AWS Support plans
https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/plans/
