Module 9 quiz

Test your knowledge of some of the key concepts from this module by answering the questions in this quiz.

After answering each question, review the detailed answer explanations and external links to reinforce your understanding of the concepts.

1) Which Perspective of the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework helps you structure the selection and implementation of permissions?
The correct response option is Security Perspective.
 
The Security Perspective of the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework also helps you to identify areas on non-compliance and plan ongoing security initiatives.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
- The Governance Perspective helps you to identify and implement best practices for IT governance and support business processes with technology.
- The Operations Perspective focuses on operating and recovering IT workloads to meet the requirements of your business stakeholders.
- The Business Perspective helps you to move from a model that separates business and IT strategies into a business model that integrates IT strategy.

Learn more:
Whitepaper: An Overview of the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/aws_cloud_adoption_framework.pdf


2) Which strategies are included in the six strategies for application migration? (Select TWO.)
The two correct response options are:
- Retaining
- Rehosting
The application migration strategies are rehosting, replatforming, refactoring/re-architecting, repurchasing, retaining, and retiring.

Learn more:
6 Strategies for Migrating Applications to the Cloud
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/enterprise-strategy/6-strategies-for-migrating-applications-to-the-cloud/


3) What is the storage capacity of AWS Snowmobile?
The correct response option is 100 PB.
 
AWS Snowmobile is a service that is used for transferring up to 100 PB of data to AWS. Each Snowmobile is a 45-foot long shipping container that is pulled by a semi trailer truck.

Learn more:
AWS Snow Family
https://aws.amazon.com/snow/


4) Which statement best describes Amazon Lex?
The correct response option is Amazon Lex.
 
In Amazon Lex, you can quickly build, test, and deploy conversational chatbots to use in your applications.
 
The other response options are incorrect because:
A machine learning service that automatically extracts text and data from scanned document describes Amazon Textract.
A document database service that supports MongoDB workloads describes Amazon DocumentDB.
A service that enables you to identify potentially fraudulent online activities describes Amazon Fraud Detector.

Learn more:
Amazon Lex
https://aws.amazon.com/lex/
